&gt;&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO THE CAPITAL,
TRY AND GIVE THEM THE KIND OF
PRIDE AND BOLDNESS THEY NEED TO
TAKE BACK OUR COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; DONALD TRUMP IS
IMPEACHED FOR HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS, ARTICLE 1,
INCITEMENT OF INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt; MOST REPUBLICANS ARE GOING TO
SAY THIS IS NOT INCITEMENT
UNDER THE LAW.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS WILL DECIDE ON THE
ONE TRUE QUESTION AT STAKE IN
THIS TRIAL. IS DONALD TRUMP
GUILTY OF INCITING A VIOLENT MOB
AGAINST THE UNITED STATES?
&gt;&gt; TODAY, DONALD TRUMP'S LAWYERS
DEFEND HIM AGAINST THE CHARGE OF
INCITING INSURRECTION AND HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS. OVER
THE LAST FEW DAYS, HOUSE
DEMOCRATS MADE THEIR CASE
THAT THE FORMER PRESIDENT WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MOP THAT
ATTACKED THE U.S. CAPITOL IN
JANUARY 6. THEY WARNED IF LEFT
UNPUNISHED TRUMP COULD INCITE
MORE VIOLENCE. NOW THE FOCUS
TURNS TO THE DEFENSE.
TRUMP'S LAWYERS HAVE EIGHT HOURS
AND EIGHT MORE TOMORROW TO MOUNT
THEIR DEFENSE BUT BECKY DID TAKE
FAR LESS TIME THAN IT APPEARED
FOR MORE LET'S GO TO RHONDA
COLVIN, CAPITAL  HILL REPORTER.
RHONDA, THIS CAN BE A SHORT
DEFENSE BY PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
TEAM TODAY?
&gt;&gt; A VERY SHORT DEFENSE, THEY
ARE ONLY
INTERESTED IN FILLING A QUARTER
OF THE TIME. THE DEMOCRATS
DIDN'T USE ALL OF THEIR TIME BUT
THEY CAME CLOSE.
THEY STRETCHED OUT THEIR
ARGUMENTS OVER A PERIOD OF TWO
DAYS BUT THE DEFENSE SAY THE
ONLY GOING TO USE MAYBE 3 TO 4
HOURS TODAY OF THAT TIME. AT
THAT HAPPENS THEY COULD
FORESEEABLY MOVE ON TO THE NEXT
PART OF THIS IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
WHICH WILL BE THE QUESTIONS THE
SENATORS CAN WRITE AND ASK BOTH
SIDES. TODAY WERE LIKELY TO HELP
THE TRUMP DEFENSE TEAM GO AFTER
THIS WAS A FIRST AMENDMENT
PROTECTION
THAT TRUMP WAS VERY PASSIONATE
HIS WORDS WERE NOT PART OF THE
ACTUAL ACTIONS THAT TOOK PLACE
HERE ON THE HILL HE WAS JUST
GIVING A ROUSING SPEECH MUCH
LIKE HE DID AT HIS RALLIES. SO
THERE'S STILL GOING TO CHIP AWAY
THIS IDEA THAT HE'S PROTECTED
UNDER THE FIRST AMENDMENT.
CLOSE GO TO JOYCE MORE OF THAT,
SHE CAN GIVE US INSIGHT INTO
EXACTLY WHAT THOSE ARGUMENTS
MIGHT LOOK LIKE TODAY? JOYCE.
&gt;&gt; WILL BE A MUCH SHORTER
ARGUMENT THAN WE SAW. OVER THE
COURSE OF THE PAST TWO DAYS.
IT'S REP. DAVID CICILLINE, HE
SAID THEY WOULD ONLY BE
SPEAKING FOR FOUR HOURS MAKING
THOSE ARGUMENTS IN DEFENSE OF
TRUMPS CHARGE OF INCITEMENT OF
INSURRECTION. WE SAW YESTERDAY
AS WELL, SOME OF TRUMPS ALLIES
IN THE SENATE, LINDSEY GRAHAM,
TED CRUZ AND MIKE LEE MEETING
WITH TRUMPS ATTORNEYS BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS. FOLLOWING THAT,
DAVID SCHOEN SAID THEY WERE
TALKING  PROCEDURE, HE WASN'T
TIPPED OFF TO ANY QUESTIONS THEY
COULD POTENTIALLY
ASK FOLLOWING THE ARGUMENT. WE
KNOW THAT READING THAT LEGAL
BRIEF THEY FILED BACK ON MONDAY
AS RHONDA WAS MENTIONING THEY
EXPECT THE FRAME TRUMPS WORDS AS
BEING FIGURATIVE AND DEFENDING
HIS FREEDOM OF SPEECH YEAR PEER
THEY ALSO ARE EXPECTED TO
SHARPLY CRITICIZE THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AS WELL AS
OTHER DEMOCRATS, USING THEIR
WORDS TO DRAW COMPARISON
BASICALLY IN THAT LEGAL BRIEF
THEY TALK ABOUT LAWMAKERS LIKE
SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI AND WHAT
THEY SAID ABOUT UPRISING,
DAVID SCHOEN HAS ALLUDED TO,
EARLIER THIS WEEK, POTENTIALLY
USING VIDEOS OF DEMOCRATS  AND
THEIR POLITICAL SPEECH ON THE
FLOOR OF THE SENATE DURING THEIR
ARGUMENTS. WE KNOW THEY
SIGNIFICANTLY CUT BACK THEIR
ARGUMENT SO THAT COULD HAVE
CHANGE. BUT WE DO KNOW THAT THAT
WILL BE ONE OF THEIR MAIN
PILLARS TO THEIR ARGUMENT IN
DEFENSE OF TRUMP EARED THE BIG
WILDCARD HERE IS BRUCE CASTOR,
WHO IS TRUMPS OTHER ATTORNEY AND
MADE HEADLINES ON TUESDAY  AND
WEDNESDAY MORNING AFTER BACKLASH
OF CRITICISM FOLLOWING HIS
DEFENSE
OF TRUMP WHERE HE RAMBLED AND
MEANDERED THROUGH A LOT OF
POINTS THAT WERE NOT CONNECTED
BACK TO A STRAIGHT DEFENSE OF
TRUMP. SO TODAY WE WILL BE
SEEING HOW THEIR STRATEGY HAS
CHANGED, IF AT ALL,
HOW MUCH HE GETS A PLATFORM TO
TALK IF HE SPEAKS JUST AS MUCH
AS DAVID SCHOEN, WE WILL REALLY
BE LOOKING TO SEE WHAT EXACTLY
HE HAS TO SAY TODAY
AND IF HE GIVES SUBSTANTIAL
ARGUMENTS AS OPPOSED TO RAMBLING
DEFENSE OF TRUMP. OF COURSE,
ALTHOUGH THIS IS A VERY
POLITICAL PROCESS WILL CERTAINLY
BE LOOKING TO HEAR FROM TRUMPS
ATTORNEYS HOW EXACTLY THEY
DEFEND TRUMP ON HIS USE OF WORDS
BEFORE THIS JANUARY 6
INSURRECTION, ESPECIALLY
FOLLOWING THE LAST TWO DAYS OF
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
PRESENTING THIS EVIDENCE-BASED
DEFENSE
, ARGUMENT OF TRUMP AND HOW HE
INCITED VIOLENCE AND HOW THE
INSURRECTION US, HIS SUPPORTERS
, HAVE TALKED ABOUT THEIR
ALLEGIANCE TO TRUMP AS BEING ONE
OF THEIR MOTIVATING FACTORS FOR
BEING AT THE CAPITAL THAT THEY.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO JAMES, I'M SO
GLAD
JOYCE BROUGHT UP THESE
REPUBLICANS AND THEIR
INVOLVEMENT
OR COORDINATION OR ADVICE GIVING
TO TRUMP'S LAWYERS. LAST NIGHT
WE DID SEE A TRIO OF REPUBLICANS
GO INTO THAT ROOM WHERE TRUMPS
ATTORNEYS ARE PREPARING AND
WORKING, RIGHT?
TED CRUZ, MIKE LEE, LINDSEY
GRAHAM. I'M EMPHASIZING THOSE
NAMES BECAUSE THEY HAVE BEEN
STAUNCH DEFENDERS OF DONALD
TRUMP, THEY ALSO HAVE A LOT OF
LEGAL BACKGROUND AND KNOWLEDGE
AND
YOU CAN THINK, WAIT A MINUTE,
THE JURORS ARE COORDINATING WITH
THE DEFENSE?
BUT THIS IS NOT A CRIMINAL
TRIAL. SO HOW WAS THIS JUSTIFIED
AND WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
&gt;&gt; LIBBY, WE SAW THIS A YEAR AGO
DURING THE LAST TRIAL WHEN
TED CRUZ, WHO WAS NO FRIEND OF
TRUMP DURING THE 2016 CAMPAIGN
WAS ALSO OFFERING LEGAL ADVICE.
THIS TIME THE PRESIDENT HIRED
FIRST ROUND OF ATTORNEYS BECAUSE
THEY WERE FRIENDS AND ALLIES OF
LINDSEY GRAHAM. THESE NEW
LAWYERS ALSO RECOMMENDED BY SOME
OF THE SENATORS. THE JURORS HAVE
TAKEN A SACRED OATH TO BE
IMPARTIAL IN RENDERING JUSTICE.
BUT THIS ISN'T OUT OF THE NORM
DURING THE 90s DEMOCRATS WERE
GIVING LEGAL ADVICE TO BILL
CLINTON'S DEFENSE TEAM
DURING THAT IMPEACHMENT TRIAL.
IT CERTAINLY LOOKS WEIRD. WE'RE
TOLD THAT TRUMP HIMSELF HAS BEEN
VERY HANDS-ON.
HE PLAYED A ROUND OF GOLF
YESTERDAY. HE IS FRUSTRATED
ABOUT BRUCE CASTOR'S INITIAL
PERFORMANCE AND HE HAS BEEN
CALLING IN  AND BEEN ON THE
SPEAKER PHONE DURING THESE
CONVERSATION REPUBLICAN SENATORS
AND THE LAWYERS AND
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP HIMSELF.
&gt;&gt; IT BEGS THE QUESTION WHAT IS
THE POINT OF THIS EXERCISE IF WE
ALREADY KNOW SOME OF THESE
REPUBLICANS ARE DECIDED THEY
DON'T HAVE AN OPEN MIND. THEY
ARE NOT TAKING THAT CHARGE OF
COMING OUT THIS AND HEARING ALL
THE ARGUMENTS AND THEN MAKING A
DECISION SERIOUSLY. THIS IS A
POLITICAL ENDEAVOR. THAT IS THE
WAY THIS GOES. BUT WHAT IS THE
POINT OF THIS PROCESS?
&gt;&gt; THIS IS ABOUT THE COURT OF
PUBLIC OPINION. THIS IS ABOUT
ULTIMATELY HOLDING TRUMP
ACCOUNTABLE EVEN THOUGH HE IS
NOT CONVICTED IN THE EYES OF
HISTORY. IN THEORY,
A LOT OF THE REVELATIONS THAT
HAVE COME OUT ABOUT HIS INACTION
IN EVERYTHING HE DID TO FOMENT
WHAT HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6 COULD
MAKE IT HARDER FOR HIM TO RUN IN
2024. THE IRONY IS TED CRUZ HAS
ALREADY SAID PUBLICLY HE'S GOING
TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT IN 2024.
IT IS IRONIC, ONE OF THE UP
SHOTS OF THIS TRIAL,
ONE OF THE REASONS DEMOCRATS
HAVE JUSTIFIED MOVING FORWARD
AFTER HE HAS LEFT OFFICE IS THAT
THEY WANT TO MAKE IT SO TRUMP
CANNOT RUN FOR PRESIDENT AGAIN
IN 2020 4M CAN'T EVEN THREATEN
TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT IN A WAY TO
KEEP REPUBLICANS IN LINE AND
KEEP THEM MORE TRUMP HE THEN
CONSERVATIVE.
THERE IS SOME IRONY THERE
DOESN'T APPEAR THAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN. BUT REMEMBER THERE ARE
SIX REPUBLICANS WHO WILL BE
VOTING FOR THE TRIAL AND WHO
SAID IT WAS CONSTITUTIONAL.
IF THOSE SIX OR EVEN A HANDFUL
OF THEM VOTE TO CONVICT THIS
WILL BE THE MOST BIPARTISAN
IMPEACHMENT BOAT IN AMERICAN
HISTORY.
ONE TO WATCH IS A REPUBLICAN WHO
DID SITE, THAT'S A SWITCH. HOW
WE VOTED WEEKS AGO. HE TOLD
REPORTERS HE WANTS ANSWERED BY
TRUMP'S LAWYERS.
WHY DID TRUMP NOT TELL THE
RIOTERS TO STOP OR CONDEMN THE
ACCOUNT ATTACKS ON POLICE?
&gt;&gt; YOU HEAR THE POLICE OFFICERS
AND SAY RIGHT FLANK. LET'S GO
BACK, OFFICER 50. PANIC STRICKEN
VOICE. THEY ARE USING WEAPONS ON
US, BEAR SPRAY. THE PRESIDENT
WAS CALLING TO TRY AND GET MORE
SENATORS TO DECERTIFY THE
ELECTION.
NOW PRESUMABLY SINCE WE WERE AT
THAT POINT BEING EVACUATED. I
THINK HE WAS TOLD THAT, THERE
WAS SOME AWARENESS OF THE
EVENTS. I HOPE THE DEFENSE
EXPLAINS THAT.
&gt;&gt; THAT SENATOR CASSIDY SPEAKING
TO REPORTERS YESTERDAY.
RHONDA COLVIN, WHAT DOES THE
DEFENSE TEAM DO WITH THE
QUESTION LIKE THAT.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGER, REP. JAMIE RASKIN SAID
HE HAS A SET OF  OPTIONS FOR THE
DEFENSE GO AFTER TODAY.
HE WANTS TO KNOW WHY TRUMP
DIDN'T DO ANYTHING FOR A SERIES
OF HOURS THAT HE WAS AWARE THERE
WAS DANGER AT THE CAPITAL WHEN
HE WAS AWARE OF THE INSURRECTION
US HAD COME IN AND LICE RED
DANGER AND HE DID NOT DO
ANYTHING. REP. JAMIE RASKIN SAID
THAT IS THE TOP OF THIS LIST THE
THINGS HE WANTS THE DEFENSE GO
AFTER.  THAT ARGUMENT ANNA PEELS
SEEMS TO BE WORKING WITH
SOMEBODY LIKE BILL CASSIDY
THERE. FINDING OUT WHY THE
PRESIDENT HAD KNOWLEDGE, AFTER
THERE IS A DANGEROUS SITUATION
HE DID NOT CALL THINGS OUT.
I THINK THAT'S ONE OF THE MOST
EFFECTIVE ARGUMENTS BETWEEN
YESTERDAY AND THE DAY BEFORE.
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WANTED TO
PRESENT. IF ANYTHING AFTER THINK
ABOUT PERSONAL SAFETY HE COULD
DO IT AGAIN. HE DID NOT ACT WHEN
HE KNEW ABOUT THESE THINGS AND
HE LATER ON OUT OF VIDEO SAYING
TO GO HOME SOME OF THE PEOPLE IN
THE
RIOTS SITE THE VIDEO SAID OKAY
WE WON LET'S GO HOME. A LOT OF
PEOPLE ARE WONDERING IF THE
DEFENSE WILL TALK ABOUT THAT AT
ALL. OR IF THEY WON'T DO THAT AT
ALL AND WHAT THEY WILL ADDRESS
TODAY.
&gt;&gt; THE OTHER QUESTION THAT
SENATOR CASSIDY ASKED IS HE
CONTINUED TO
PUT FORWARD THE LIEN HE WASN'T
ACCEPTING THE RESULTS. HIS
CONSTITUENTS BACK IN LOUISIANA
STILL DON'T BELIEVE THE ELECTION
WAS FREE AND THERE BECAUSE IN
PART, TRUMP IS PERPETUATING THAT
LIE AND HE TIED IT IN WITH THOSE
VOTING MACHINES AND WE KNOW THAT
IS ESPECIALLY SENSITIVE RIGHT
NOW BECAUSE THE COMPANY THAT
OWNED THE VOTING MACHINES ARE
FILING LAWSUITS AGAINST
FOX NEWS, SOME OF THE NEWS
ANCHORS BECAUSE OF THE
FALSEHOODS THEY CONTINUE TO
PERPETUATE. SO CASSIDY WANTS TO
KNOW THAT ANSWER ALSO. I WOULD
LOVE TO HEAR YOUR ANALYSIS OF
HOW THE DEFENSE DEALS WITH THIS
QUESTION OF THE VALIDITY OF THE
ELECTION?
&gt;&gt; IT SHOWS YOU THAT
MISINFORMATION IS ENDURING.
EVEN AFTER THE COURT SYSTEM HAS
ADDRESSED THIS WAS A VERY FAIR
AND EQUAL ELECTION THERE IS
STILL BELIEF THAT BECAUSE OF
WHAT TRUMP HAS SAID IN HIS
SUPPORTERS AND WHOLE
STOP THE STEEL MOVEMENT IT
WASN'T A FAIR ELECTION. SO BILL
CASSIDY IS BRINGING UP AN
EXCELLENT POINT IN TALKING ABOUT
WHAT WAS CORE OF THIS CASE IS
THAT THE RHETORIC ON JANUARY 6
WAS A PART OF LONG-STANDING
RHETORIC THAT ACTUALLY WAS TEED
UP
WEEKS, IF NOT MONTHS BEFORE THE
EVENTS OF JANUARY 6. SO THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS SHOWED A
LOT OF EVIDENCE. HOW WE
CONTINUOUSLY SAID THE ELECTION
WAS A FRAUD AND HOW THAT LED TO
THE EVENTS OF JANUARY 6. IT IS A
CORE PART OF THIS WHOLE
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IS THIS
INFORMATION MISINFORMATION THAT
JUST KEEPS GETTING PADDLE AND
NOT ADDRESS AND CULMINATED IN
WHAT WE SAW ON THE SIX.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, LIKE TO HEAR YOUR WAY
IN ON THIS TOO.
TO HAVE HIM NOT ONLY SAY THAT
THE ELECTION WAS LOST BY DONALD
TRUMP BUT HE IS REALLY BATTLING
THIS BACK HOME IN LOUISIANA. WE
KNOW THAT BASED ON POLLING
INFORMATION, A LOT OF
REPUBLICANS STILL DON'T BELIEVE
THAT
JOE BIDEN WON THE ELECTION.
&gt;&gt; TO YOUR PREVIOUS QUESTION,
LIBBY, THAT'S THE OTHER REASON
TO HOLD THIS TRIAL TO ESTABLISH
THAT CLEARLY.
ONE OF THE THINGS, DEMOCRATS
WARNED ABOUT YESTERDAY, BECAUSE
A MAJORITY OF REPUBLICANS
ON SO MANY AMERICANS, DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE EXTREMISTS BELIEVE THAT
BIDEN IS THE LEGITIMATE BECAUSE
TRUMP SPENT SO MANY MONTHS
SOWING THOSE DOUBTS THEY ARE
MORE LIKELY TO ENGAGE ON VIOLENT
CONDUCT. AND
REP. JAMIE RASKIN CLOSE WITH
FOUR QUESTIONS HE HAD FOR THE
DEFENSE TEAMS.  WHAT WAS TRUMP
DOING DURING THESE HOURS.
DOZENS OF PEOPLE RESIGNED
BECAUSE THEY WERE UPSET ABOUT
THE TRUMP RESPONSE
THE LINE IT FALLEN IN THE
CAPITAL HAVE BEEN BREACHED.
&gt;&gt; INVESTIGATOR REPORTER,
ROSLYN. WE KNOW THAT TRUMPS
DEFENSE
TEAM WILL ARGUE THAT THE PRESENT
HAS A RIGHT TO FREE SPEECH. SO I
LIKE TO PLAY FOR YOU A CLIP,
THIS IS REP. JAMIE RASKIN
REJECTING THAT LINE  LET'S
WATCH.
&gt;&gt;
TRUMPS BRAZEN EVENT WON'T HOLD
UP IN ANY WAY.
OF COURSE IT COMPLETELY IGNORES
THE FACT THAT HE WAS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
A PUBLIC OFFICIAL. HE SWEARS AN
OATH AS PRESIDENT THAT NOBODY
ELSE SWEARS
IN EXCHANGE SHE'S GIVEN GREATER
POWERS THAN ANYBODY ELSE IN THE
ENTIRE COUNTRY OR OWNER APPEARED
HERE SHE PROMISES TO PRESERVE,
PROTECT AND DEFEND THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES
AND AS WE ALL KNOW, THE POWER WE
ENTRUST. PEOPLE IN PUBLIC
OFFICE. ESPECIALLY PRESIDENTS
COME WITH SPECIAL OBLIGATIONS TO
UPHOLD THE LAWS OF THE INTEGRITY
OF OUR REPUBLIC.
THERE'S NOTHING REMOTELY EXOTIC
ABOUT WHAT WE ARE SAYING, SHOULD
BE COMMON SENSE TO EVERYBODY.
ABOUT THIS UNDERSTANDING THE
FIRST AMENDMENT AS IT APPLIES TO
PUBLIC SERVANTS, COPS,
FIREFIGHTERS, TEACHERS,
EVERYBODY ACROSS THE LAND. MY
DAUGHTER WHO I MENTIONED EARLIER
, SHE IS A TEACHER IN PUBLIC
SCHOOL, SHE SAID TEACHERS TEACH
BUT IF THEY GO OFF SPEECH AND
START ADVOCATING TOTALITARIANISM
TREASON OR WHAT HAVE YOU THEY
ARE NOT LIVING UP TO THEIR
OFFICES TEACHER THEY CAN BE
FIRED, EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT.
SO ROSLYN, LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
FREEDOM OF SPEECH ARGUMENT.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: THAT WAS A REALLY
INTERESTING ARGUMENT THAT
REP. JAMIE RASKIN MADE, HE'S
MAKING IT REAL AND VISCERAL
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A CRIMINAL
TRIAL AN IMPEACHMENT
ESSENTIALLY LIKENING IMPEACHMENT
KIND OF YOUR JOB PERFORMANCE
YOUR EMPLOYMENT SITUATION WHEN
YOU ARE A TEACHER
NOBODY'S GOING TO PUT A TEACHER
WHO GOES OFF SCRIPT IN JAIL FOR
THAT. BUT THERE IS AN AGREEMENT
THAT HE OR SHE DOES NOT HAVE A
RIGHT TO SAY ANYTHING THEY WANT
TO IN THE CLASSROOM AND THEY
COULD BE FIRED FOR IT.
THIS IS DIFFERENT FROM CRIMINAL
INSURRECTION AND CRIME
WHICH THERE MIGHT BE A FIRST
AMENDMENT DEFENSE. WHAT IS
HAPPENING HERE IN THE
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL, I WOULD BE
INTERESTED TO SEE WHAT THE
DEFENSE DOES WITH THAT LINE OF
ARGUMENT. MY BEST EXPECTATION AS
THEY WILL LARGELY JUST IGNORE IT
AND THEY WILL CONTINUE TO MAKE
THE ARGUMENT THAT LOOK, THE
SUPREME COURT HAS PUT A VERY
HIGH STANDARD OF WHAT
INSURRECTION
, FREE-SPEECH PROTECTIONS AND
WHAT YOU WOULD HAVE TO PROVE IN
A COURT OF LAW
TO PROVE THAT SOMEONE INSIDE IT
VIOLENCE. IF YOU LOOK AT TRUMPS
SPEECH THAT DAY IT DOESN'T MEET
THAT BAR. THAT IS SORT OF WHAT
I'M EXPECTING TO HEAR.
IT'S BESIDE THE POINT, THAT'S
NOT THE STANDARD WE USE IN
IMPEACHMENT WERE NOT TRYING TO
PUT HIM IN JAIL,
THEY ARE TRYING TO GET HIM
CONVICTED BY THE SENATE IN A WAY
YOU WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO HOLD
PUBLIC OFFICE IN THE FUTURE
THAT'S A VERY DIFFERENT THING.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO BACK TO RHONDA, WE
HEARD THE PRE-A BOTTLE YESTERDAY
AND WE ARE WATCHING THE TRUMP
ATTORNEYS ARRIVED THERE RIGHT
NOW AND GET PHOTOGRAPH. IS
ROSALYN POINTS OUT IT'S NOT LIKE
THE TEAM HAS TO TACKLE EVERY
POINT THAT WAS RAISED.
REALLY HAVE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
THAT SENATOR CASSIDY IS BROUGHT
UP. WHAT ARE THEY ACTUALLY HAVE
TO DO TODAY
THERE IS WINNING THE ARGUMENT
BUT THEN THERE IS WINNING THE
JURY. HAPPENS IN THIS CASE THERE
ARE TWO DIFFERENT THINGS.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: WHAT THEY HAVE TO
DO AND WHAT THEY WILL DO ARE TWO
DIFFERENT THINGS.  I THINK TO
THE POINT JUST RAISED, YOU MIGHT
SUSPECT IF YOU HAVE READ THEIR
BRIEF THAT
THEY ARE GOING TO STICK TO WHAT
THEY BEEN SAYING ALL ALONG THIS
IS A FREE-SPEECH CASE. EVEN
THOUGH
REP. JAMIE RASKIN AND THE OTHER
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS THAT HE IS
NOT PROTECTED UNDER FREE SPEECH.
ON TOP OF THAT  HE ALSO TAKES A
SEPARATE OATH FROM AN EXECUTIVE
OFFICER WHERE HE IS SUPPOSED TO
DEFEND THE CONSTITUTION. IF YOU
LOOK WHAT JANUARY 6 WAS, THAT
WAS A CONSTITUTIONAL ACT. THEY
HAD TO CERTIFY THE ELECTION IT
HAPPENS EVERY PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION
CYCLE SO THAT WAS AN ACT OF THE
CONSTITUTION HE DID NOT DEFEND
AND INSTEAD TRY TO INTERRUPT. SO
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS BY
LEAVING THAT ALL ON THE TABLE
THERE YESTERDAY. THEY REALLY
WANTED TO PUT THE DEFENSE TEAM
IN A CORNER SAYING YOU NEED TO
ADDRESS THESE THINGS
AND NOT JUST ARGUING THAT IS
FREE SPEECH OR THE OTHER
ARGUMENT THEY MAY BE BRINGING UP
THAT THIS IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
REP. JAMIE RASKIN SAID DON'T
BRING THAT UP BECAUSE WE ALREADY
VOTED AND PASSED THAT THIS IS
CONSTITUTIONAL.  THE SENATE HAS
JURISDICTION TO GO FORWARD WITH
THIS SO YOU CAN'T BRING THAT
APPEARED THEY WANT THE DEFENSE
TO BRING UP THINGS THAT ARE
CONNECTED TO MATERIALS THAT HAVE
BEEN BROUGHT UP BY THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS. WE DON'T
KNOW YET IF THEY WILL DO THOSE
THINGS BUT THOSE ARE THE THINGS
THEY SHOULD DO IF THEY WANT TO
MAKE THE CONNECTION BETWEEN WHAT
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE
SAYING HE DID AND WHAT THEY ARE
DEFENDING HIM AGAINST.
&gt;&gt; JAMES HOHMANN, IT'S ALMOST
THE CHARGE WITH THE ATTORNEYS DO
NO HARM  BECAUSE THEY HAVE
ALREADY WON THE JURY AS FAR WE
CAN TELL. WE ARE NOT SEEING IT
SIGNIFICANT ENOUGH NUMBER OF
REPUBLICANS TO CHANGE THE
OUTCOME HERE.
AS WE ARE WATCHING
PHOTOGRAPHERS, HAD A LITTLE BIT
OF I WAS AFRAID FOR A MOMENT
FRANKLY. I COULD SEE PEOPLE
RUNNING OUT OF THE CORNER OF MY
EYE AT THE CAPITOL. I WASN'T
EVEN THERE AT THE CAPITOL ON
THAT DAY. BUT WE ARE ALL STILL
REALLY JUMPY. WE'RE ALL RELIVING
WHAT HAPPENED AND HOW HORRIBLE
THAT WAS. WHEN I CAUGHT A
GLIMPSE OUT OF THE CORNER OF MY
EYE, PEOPLE WITH GEAR SPRINTING
IT HAS A NEW MEANING FOR ME
THAN IT DID A MONTH AND A HALF
AGO, JAMES. I JUST WANTED TO
POINT THAT OUT. BECAUSE THE
BAGGAGE EVERYONE IS DEALING WITH
THE STILL FRONT AND CENTER EVEN
IF WE TALK ABOUT AND ARGUE THESE
FINER POINTS OF WHO IS
RESPONSIBLE FOR WHAT X
&gt;&gt; AMERICA CERTAINLY LOST SOME
OF THEIR
INNOCENCE ON JANUARY 6. THIS IS
OUR TEMPLE OF DEMOCRACY THAT WAS
DESECRATED. YOU'RE RIGHT THAT
WAS UNNERVING. BUT ONCE CASTOR
REALIZED PHOTOGRAPHERS HAD RUN
TO GET IN FRONT OF THEM, HE
STOPPED
AND THEN MADE A SHOW OF
MARVELING THE CAPITOL DOME AND
THEN HE LOOKED DOWN AND KIND OF
CHANGE HIS POSTURE TO FINISH
WALKING INTO THE BUILDING
KNOWING THAT HE WAS BEING
PHOTOGRAPH WHICH IS KIND OF A
FUNNY THING, THIS IS A LAWYER
WHO IS KNOWN IN THE PHILADELPHIA
MEDIA MARKET BUT WORKS IN A FIRM
OF TRIAL LAWYERS, SLIP AND FALL
ACCIDENT TYPE
REPRESENTING THE FORMER
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
HE'S NEVER DONE THIS BEFORE BUT
HE WAS ALSO HAMMING IT UP FOR
ONE OF THE CAMERAS.
&gt;&gt; LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, THEY
REALLY BUILT THIS CASE. TO SHOW
A PATTERN OF SPEECH,
NOT ONLY CONDONING BUT INCITING
AND REVELING IN VIOLENCE LEADING
UP TO JANUARY 6.
THAT IS A DEFENSE TEAM TACKLE
THAT? DO THEY JUST FOCUS ON
JANUARY 6 AND TRY TO MAKE A
DIRECT DEFENSE OF HIS LANGUAGE
ON THAT DAY AND THE ATTACK ON
THE CAPITAL?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: I DON'T KNOW THE
ANSWER TO THAT. I'M INTERESTED
TO SEE IT. I DO THINK  THEY ARE
GOING TO FOCUS MUCH MORE OF
THEIR CASE ON THE SPEECH THAT
DAY. RATHER ON THE REST OF THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS CASE
EVERYTHING THAT LED UP TO IT. I
THINK THAT THE PROBLEM WITH
THEIR OWN CLIENT IN HOW YOU
ADDRESS THE THINGS THE PRESIDENT
WAS SAYING PRIOR TO JANUARY 6
BECAUSE WE ALL KNOW THAT TRUMP
STILL BELIEVES TO THIS DAY THAT
THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN. HE
STILL BELIEVES IN HIS OWN LIE.
THERE'VE BEEN SOME REPORTING
THAT HE WOULD LIKE TO
HEAR HIS LAWYERS PRESS THAT CASE
ON THE FLOOR SO THAT'S A TRICKY
SITUATION FOR THEM. THE ONE
THOUGHT I DID HAVE YESTERDAY IN
WATCHING THE PRESENTATION THAT
WAS GIVEN, WENT BACK TO THE 2016
CAMPAIGN.
COMMENTS, THROUGH
CHARLOTTESVILLE UP UNTIL THE
PRESENT IS THAT
PERHAPS THE DEFENSE TEAM WILL
USE SOME OF THAT FOR AN ARGUMENT
WE DID HERE IN THE OPENING
REMARKS WHICH IS ESSENTIALLY
DEMOCRATS HAVE BEEN OPPOSED TO
TRUMP FROM THE START AND
LOOK AT THEM, THEY ARE REACHING
BACK TO THE 2016 CAMPAIGN AND
THEIR REVISITING THINGS THEY
TALKED ABOUT 1 MILLION TIMES
BEFORE AS PART OF THIS CASE. AS
A LOGICAL MATTER I'M NOT SURE
THAT IS A SUPER EFFECTIVE
ARGUMENT BECAUSE THE HOUSE
MANAGERS DID PRESENT A TIGHT
CASE FOR WHY THEY WERE BRINGING
THOSE THINGS UP, WHY THEY
MATTERED NOW BUT I COULD SEE A
LITTLE BIT OF THIS ARGUMENT THAT
THEY HAVE WANTED TO IMPEACH
TRUMP SINCE THE DAY HE TOOK
OFFICE.
&gt;&gt; I WANTED TO ASK YOU ABOUT
YOUR STORY AND THE MOUNTING
EVIDENCE EMERGING INDICATING
THAT TRUMP MAY HAVE AND
PERSONALLY INFORMED THAT VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE WAS IN
PHYSICAL DANGER DURING THE
CAPITAL SIEGE. JUST MOMENTS
BEFORE DENIGRATING HIM ON
TWITTER. CAN YOU WALKER VIEWERS
THROUGH THE TIMELINE?
&gt;&gt;
I THINK TO THE CASSIDY COMMENT
YOU PLAYED EARLIER ONE OF THE
BIGGEST VULNERABILITIES, WE HAVE
HEARD THIS FROM REPUBLICANS ON
THE HILL, DESPITE THE FACT WE
DON'T THINK THE OUTCOME IS IN
DOUBT THERE IS GRAVE CONCERN
AMONGST REPUBLICANS ABOUT
TRUMP'S ACTIONS ON THAT DAY.
WE DID A STORY EARLIER IN THE
WEEK ABOUT HOW HIS DEFENSE
ATTORNEYS ARE NOW TRYING TO
CLAIM HE WAS IMMEDIATELY
HORRIFIED BY THE VIOLENCE AND
THERE'S QUITE A BIT OF PUBLIC
EVIDENCE AND PRIVATE REPORTING
THAT SHOWS THAT JUST ISN'T TRUE.
THIS MORNING WE FOCUSED ON THIS
KEY MOMENT THAT HAPPENS AS THE
RIOTERS ARE BREAKING INTO THE
BUILDING,
THE HOUSE AND SENATE SESSIONS TO
COUNT THE VOTES ARE HALTED
BECAUSE THERE ARE NOW RIOTERS IN
THE BUILDING AND VICE PRESIDENT
MIKE PENCE IS SPIRITED OFF BY
SECURITY. SHORTLY AFTER THAT,
THAT HAPPENS IT 2:13 PM.
AT 2:24 PM, DONALD TRUMP TWEETS
THE PENCE LACKED COURAGE AND USA
DEMANDS TRUTH.
SO THE MORE HE KNEW IN THAT
MOMENT ABOUT THE PERIL HIS OWN
VICE PRESIDENT WAS IN AT THAT
VERY MOMENT, THE WORSE IT LOOKS
FOR HIM IT APPEARS THAT HE WAS
TWEETING, POTENTIALLY TRYING TO
INFLAME THE MOB FORWARD. OUR
REPORTING SHOWS THAT HE
CERTAINLY KNEW THAT THE VICE
PRESIDENT HAD JUST BEEN
EVACUATED
FROM THE FLOOR. FIRST OF ALL, WE
ALL KIND OF KNEW THAT, IT WAS ON
TELEVISION. WE ALSO BELIEVE IT
IS HIGHLY LIKELY GIVING
TYPICAL PRACTICE HE WOULD'VE
BEEN INFORMED BY THE SECRET
SERVICE. MIKE PENCE HAD SECRET
SERVICE AROUND HIM. THEY WERE
INVOLVED IN THAT MOMENT AND THEY
WOULD'VE TOLD THEIR COUNTER
PARTS IN THE WHITE HOUSE ABOUT
THAT. AND THERE'S NEW EVIDENCE
IN A PHONE CALL THAT TRUMP
INTENDED TO REACH A SENATOR FROM
ALABAMA, HE CALLED MIKE LEE OF
UTAH. HE SAID HE HANDED OVER HIS
PHONE, WE DON'T KNOW THE EXACT
TIME OF THE CALL. BUT THE
SENATOR FROM ALABAMA ENDED WITH
TELLING DONALD TRUMP, MIKE PENCE
WAS JUST PULLED OUT OF FEAR,
I'VE GOT TO GO. AND SO WE KNOW,
IN A PHONE CALL THAT EITHER
HAPPENED RIGHT BEFORE OR MAYBE
RIGHT AFTER HE TWEETS, HE IS
TOLD BY THE SENATOR FROM ALABAMA
WHY THEY ARE ON THE SCENE OF
WHAT'S GOING ON WITH MIKE PENCE.
&gt;&gt; MIGHT
PENCE HAS TALKED MULTIPLE TIMES
TO DONALD TRUMP, WE HAVEN'T SEEN
THE TWO OF THEM PUBLICLY
INTERACT. HE HAS NO PLANS TO
CONDEMN TRUMP IN ANY WAY.
&gt;&gt; FOR A LOT OF REPUBLICANS, THE
WAY THAT TRUMP
TREATED MIKE PENCE IS THE THING
THAT'S HARDEST FOR THEM TO GET
PAST TO JUST LOOK OVER. THERE IS
A NEW ARTICLE OUT THIS MORNING
WITH A LONG INTERVIEW WITH NIKKI
HALEY TALKING ABOUT HOW UPSET
SHE WAS ABOUT THAT.
THE FACT THAT HE PUT HIS OWN
VICE PRESIDENT, WHO HAD BEEN
INCREDIBLY LOYAL, AND PHYSICAL
DANGER AND THEN DID VERY LITTLE
TO TRY TO HELP THEM, NEVER
CALLED HIM IN THOSE MOMENTS.
THAT IS HARD TO LOOK PAST. OUR
REPORTING, PARKER AND OUR
COLLEAGUES, JOSH AND OTHERS,
THEIR REPORTING WAS THAT PEOPLE
AROUND MIKE PENCE WERE
INFURIATED, VERY ANGRY WITH
TRUMP AROUND THE APPEARED AND
THAT MIKE PENCE WAS VERY ANGRY
AT THE START. WE SAW THAT NEW
VIDEO THIS WEEK OF HIM BEING
PULLED OUT OF THE HIDEAWAY JUST
OFF THE SENATE FLOOR WITH HIS
FAMILY. YOU HAVE A REAL VISCERAL
SENSE OF THE DANGER THEY WERE IN
THAT DAY. OUR REPORTING IS HE
WAS VERY ANGRY WHEN IT HAPPENED.
THE TWO OF THEM WENT FIVE DAYS
WITHOUT SPEAKING AFTER THE
INSURRECTION WHICH IS QUITE
SURPRISING.
THERE WAS A MEETING, LET'S CLEAR
THE AIR MEETING THAT WAS
SCHEDULED IN THE WHITE HOUSE
BEFORE DONALD TRUMP LEFT OFFICE
THE SOME DESCRIBE AS STILTED AND
DIFFICULT BUT LENGTHY WHERE THEY
SORT OF CLEAR THE AIR. AND THAT
MIKE PENCE HAS NOW SPOKEN TO
TRUMP SEVERAL TIMES SINCE THE
INSURRECTION. WE KNOW THAT MIKE
PENCE IS INTERESTED IN HAVING A
POLITICAL FUTURE.
HE MAY WELL LIKELY WANT TO RUN
FOR PRESIDENT IN 2024. SO LIKE
THE REST OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
IS GRAPPLING WITH THIS ISSUE OF
HOW CLOSE TO REMAIN TO TRUMP. HE
HAS A PARTICULAR ISSUE THAT
OTHERS IN THE PARTY DON'T HAVE,
BECAUSE OF THE EXTENT TO WHICH
HE WAS ASSOCIATED WITH TRUMP
OVER THESE LAST FOUR YEARS. HE
APPEARS TO BE MAKING A
CALCULATION THAT HE CAN NEVER BE
TAKEN SERIOUSLY AS AN ANTI-TRUMP
FIGURE
AND SO HE HAS NO INTEREST IN
PUBLICLY SPEAKING AGAINST HIM AT
THIS POINT. IT ALSO SEEMS HE MAY
GENUINELY IN HIS HEART HAVE
FORGIVEN DONALD TRUMP FOR WHAT
HAPPENED THAT DAY EVEN THOUGH
PLENTY OF PEOPLE AROUND HIM HAVE
NOT.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, ROZ MENTIONED, THIS
INTERVIEW WITH
POLITICO. LET'S TALK ABOUT, THIS
IS A 2024 HOPEFUL. LET'S TALK
ABOUT HOW REPUBLICANS OUTSIDE
THE SENATE
ARE NOW POSITIONING THEMSELVES
AND TALKING ABOUT IN CONDEMNING
OR NOT CONDEMNING DONALD TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; IT IS DONALD TRUMP'S PARTY.
THE FACT THAT THERE WAS SO MUCH
ANGER AFTER JANUARY 6 AND THE
DEGREE TO WHICH THAT ANGER HAS
SUBSIDED AMONG REPUBLICANS AND
THE DEGREE TO WHICH KEVIN
McCARTHY AND MITCH McCONNELL
HAVE BACKED OFF
THEIR DIRECTLY EXPLICITLY
BLAMING TRUMP FOR INCITING TO
RIOT. THEY SENSE WALKED IT BACK.
EVERY REPUBLICAN WANTS TO RUN
THE 2024 HAS RIGHT NOW A
STRUGGLE.
LIKE MIKE PENCE, CRITICIZED
TRUMP AND SAID IS NOT WHO THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY IS ABOUT HE'S
NOT A REAL CONSERVATIVE. BOTH
NIKKI HALEY AND MICHAEL PENCE
CRITICIZED HIM WHEN HE CALLED
FOR MUSLIM BEEN ON DECEMBER 7,
2015. SUBSEQUENTLY THEY BOTH
WENT INTO THE ADMINISTRATION.
NIKKI HALEY LEFT MIDWAY THROUGH
THE TERM AND SHE'S TRIED TO
TRIANGULATE SHE CONTINUES TO TRY
TO DO.
TRUMP SHOULDN'T HAVE FOLLOWED
HIM, IT WAS WRONG TO SEE IF THE
ELECTION WAS STOLEN. DAMNING
CRITICISM OF TRUMP
HE GENERALLY BELIEVES THIS BIG
LIE THAT HE ACTUALLY THINKS THAT
THE SKY IS IN BLUE IS HOW SHE
PUT IT. HE THINKS THE ELECTION
WAS STOLEN, EVEN THOUGH IT
WASN'T. AND THEN SHE USES THAT
TO JUSTIFY DEFENDING HIM AND
DEFENDING SOME OF HIS OTHER
CONDUCT. THIS IS SOMETHING WE
WILL SEE REPEATEDLY, REPUBLICANS
WHO WANT TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT
TWISTING THEMSELVES IN PRETZELS.
THE REALITY IS IT'S ALMOST
INCONCEIVABLE BASED ON
EVERYTHING WE KNOW, IT'S THOMAS
INCONCEIVABLE TO IMAGINE
ANTI-TRUMP REPUBLICAN
BEING THE REPUBLICAN NOMINEE FOR
REPUBLICAN IN 2024.
THE APPROVAL RATING FOR HIM WITH
REPUBLICANS ARE STILL OVER 80%.
THE BALANCING ACT IS TRYING TO
APPEAL TO TRUMP SUPPORTERS BUT
ALSO APPEAL TO A LOT OF
AMERICANS, TRUMP LOST THE
ELECTION.
A LOT OF AMERICANS WERE REPULSED
BY TRUMP AND TRUMP-ISM. SO
THAT'S GOING TO BE THE CHALLENGE
FOR NIKKI HALEY AND ALSO THE
SENATORS WHO ARE JURORS, MARCO
RUBIO SAYS HE'S GOING TO ACQUIT
SAYING THIS PROCEEDING IS DUMB.
TED CRUZ AS WE'VE DISCUSSED THIS
MORNING GIVING TRIAL ADVICE TO
TRUMP'S LAWYERS. JOSH HAWLEY,
ONE OF THE PEOPLE WHO WAS
ENCOURAGING
TRYING TO OVERTURN AND DECERTIFY
THE RESULTS. REALLY THIS A BUNCH
OF PEOPLE IN THE SENATE WHO WANT
TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT BUT THOSE
ARE THE THREE BIG ONES. TOM
COTTON, ANOTHER ONE WHO'S HAD TO
FIGURE OUT THESE BALANCING ACTS
OF PRAISING TRUMP BUT DISTANCING
HIMSELF.
&gt;&gt; REMEMBER BACK TO THE FIRST
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL, DEMOCRATS
ARGUED AT THAT TIME FOR
WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS AND
THOSE CALLS FELL ON DEAF EARS AT
THE TIME BECAUSE DEMOCRATS WERE
IN THE MINORITY. BUT NOW SENATOR
SCHUMER AND THE DEMOCRATS
CONTROL BOTH HOUSES OF CONGRESS.
SO HERE'S THE QUESTION, WHY ARE
THEY NOT CALLING WITNESSES AND
INSTEAD ELECTING TO MOVE AT A
FASTER CLIP? IT'S SOMETHING THEY
HAVE HAD TO WRESTLE WITH. WHAT
IS THE CALCULATION THEY ARE
MAKING AND WHY?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: IMPEACHMENT IS A
POLITICAL PROCESS IT IS OF
COURSE ALL ABOUT  POLITICS.
FRANKLY IT WAS THEN ALSO. I DO
THINK THEY THOUGHT IN THE FIRST
IMPEACHMENT HEARING FROM JOHN
BOLTON WOULD BE A POWERFUL
MOMENT. BUT IT WAS MOSTLY ABOUT
TRYING TO CONVINCE THE PUBLIC
THAT REPUBLICANS WERE NOT TAKING
THE PROCESS SERIOUSLY ENOUGH AND
WERE NOT WILLING TO HEAR FROM
PEOPLE THEY SHOULD BE HEARING
FROM BEFORE VOTING TO ACQUIT.
THIS TIME AROUND, THINGS ARE
DIFFERENT. WE HAVE A DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENT WHO HAS A BIG AND
IMPORTANT AGENDA APPEARED HE
STILL HAS KEY CABINET NOMINEES
WHO HAVE NOT YET BEEN CONFIRMED.
HE HAS A COVID RELIEF PACKAGE
SHE WOULD LIKE TO GET THROUGH
CONGRESS.
WITNESSES ULTIMATELY AT THE END
OF THE DAY MIGHT BRING FORWARD
NEW FACTS. I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR
SOME WITNESSES. BUT THEY MIGHT
NOT. THEY WOULD CERTAINLY TAKE
TIME.
IF CALLS MIGHT RESIST APPEARING,
FORCING LITIGATION. I THINK THE
DEMOCRATS FEEL THAT SINCE THEIR
AUDIENCE IS NOT NECESSARILY THE
SENATE, THE VOTE IN THE SENATE,
THE OUTCOME IS NOT MUCH IN
DOUBT. IT IS LARGELY FOR THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. I THINK THEY
FEEL VERY PLEASED WITH THE CASES
THEY HAVE PUT ON FOR THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE IN THIS PAST
WEEK.
IT IS BEEN TIGHT, IT IS BEEN
EMOTIONAL. THEY HAVE LAID OUT A
CASE I THINK EVEN REPUBLICANS
HAVE AGREED WAS A STRONGER AND
MORE CONTROLLED AND PERSUASIVE
CASE THAN THEY MIGHT'VE
EXPECTED.
I DON'T THINK THEY FEEL LIKE
THEY NEED WITNESSES TO PRESS
THAT CASE. IN FACT IT MIGHT
UNDERCUT THE POWER OF WHAT THEY
HAVE DONE SO FAR.
&gt;&gt; ROSALIND HELDERMAN, THANK YOU
FOR JOINING US.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
&gt;&gt; THIS WEEK IS HISTORIC, IS
THE FIRST TIME AN AMERICAN
PRESIDENT HAS FACED TWO
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS. BUT AS MY
COLLEAGUE POINTS OUT, LILLIAN
CUNNINGHAM, WE CAN STILL LEARN A
LOT FROM HISTORY.
&gt;&gt; I AM THE CREATOR AND HOST OF
PRESIDENTIAL PODCASTS.
WHEN RICHARD NIXON WAS FACING
IMPEACHMENT IN 1974 HE RESIGNED
THE PRESIDENCY. ON HIS FINAL DAY
HE LEFT IN A HELICOPTER FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE LAWN AND HE
RETREATED TO HIS HOME ESTATE ON
THE CALIFORNIA COAST. NOW MOST
PEOPLE THOUGHT HE WAS GOING TO
GO INTO HIDING THAT HE WOULD
NEVER WANT TO SHOW HIS FACE IN
POLITICS AGAIN BUT THEY WERE
WRONG. HE ACTUALLY SPENT A GOOD
DEAL OF TIME CRAFTING A PLAN FOR
HOW TO REHABILITATE HIS IMAGE
ALONG WITH A FEW STAFFERS WHO
WENT WITH THEM. THIS PLAN
ACTUALLY HAD AN OFFICIAL NAME,
THEY CALLED IT WIZARD. IT WAS A
LONG-TERM STRATEGY TO
REHABILITATE HIS IMAGE
THAT INVOLVED TRAVELING THE
WORLD, GIVING SPEECHES ON
FOREIGN-POLICY, HOSTING
EXCLUSIVE DINNER PARTIES AND IN
SOME CASES EVEN SHOWING UP TO
ATTEND
THE FUNERALS OF OTHER ELDER
STATESMAN EVEN WHEN HE WASN'T
INVITED. AT FIRST, ESPECIALLY IN
THE BEGINNING, NIXON WAS NOT
VERY WARMLY WELCOMED AT THESE
EVENTS. BUT AS THE YEARS WENT
ON, THE PLAN DID SEEM TO HAVE
SOME POSITIVE EFFECT IN HIS
POST-PRESIDENCY. HE WAS ABLE TO
SOME EXTENT REHABILITATE HIS
IMAGE.
IN FACT, IN 1979 THEY RELEASED A
LIST OF THE 10 MOST ADMIRED
PEOPLE IN THE WORLD AND ON IT
WAS RICHARD NIXON.
&gt;&gt;&gt; IT'S ABOUT 20 MINUTES UNTIL
THIS FOURTH DAY OF THE
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL BEGINS. AS
WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT WE WILL
HEAR FROM TRUMP'S LAWYERS AS
THEY TRIED TO MOUNT A DEFENSE
AFTER TWO DAYS OF STRONG
ARGUMENTS BY HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS. RHONDA COLVIN, LET'S
GO TO YOU FOR THIS QUESTION
TRUMP'S POWER IN THE FUTURE?
WE HEARD A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
ARGUMENTS FROM HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS ABOUT THE POTENTIAL IN
THEIR MINDS, DANGER, THAT TRUMP,
NOT BEING HELD ACCOUNTABLE HERE
POSES TO THE REPUBLIC EVEN THEIR
COLLEAGUES SITTING IN THAT
SENATE CHAMBER.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: THAT'S RIGHT AND
IT'S ALSO WRITTEN IN THE
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT HE
SHOULD BE BANNED FROM OFFICE
AND EVER SERVING IN ANY
SUPPORTIVE ELECTED OFFICE NOT
ONLY PRESIDENT BUT ANY ELECTED
OFFICE IN THE COUNTRY.
IF YOU KNOW THE SENATE GETS TO
THAT TWO THIRD MAJORITY WHERE
THEY DID VOTE TO CONVICT HIM WE
ARE NOT SEEING SIGNS OF THAT
MIGHT HAPPEN IF THEY DID DO THAT
THEY WOULD HAVE TO TAKE A
SEPARATE VOTE AFTER THAT THEY
WOULD ONLY REQUIRE A SIMPLE
MAJORITY OF SENATORS TO AGREE TO
BAN HIM FROM HOLDING OFFICE. SO
THAT HAS BEEN A PART OF THE
EARLY CRIES FROM HOUSE DEMOCRATS
WHO WANTED TO PUT TOGETHER AN
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL QUICKLY AFTER
THE SIXTH IS THAT HE SHOULD NOT
BE ABLE TO HOLD OFFICE AGAIN
BECAUSE HE WILL REPEAT THE SAME
ACTIONS AGAIN.
REMEMBER YESTERDAY THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS SPENT A LOT
OF THEIR TIME IN THE EARLY PART
SHOWING HOW HIS ACTIONS ON THE
SIXTH ARE PART OF A LARGER MO
THAT YOU CAN TRACE IT ALL THE
WAY BACK TO THE PRIMARY SEASON
OF 2015 WHERE HE DID NOT DECRY
THE VIOLENCE OR ASSAULT THAT
HAPPENED AT HIS OWN RALLIES AND
INSTEAD ENCOURAGE THEM AND EVEN
AFTER THEY HAPPEN HE SHOWED NO
PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY OR
CONTRITION.
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED SURROUNDING
JANUARY 6 SO THEY SHOWED THIS IS
A PART OF HIS BEHAVIOR
AND HE WILL LIKELY DO IT AGAIN.
WE WILL ALSO REMEMBER EARLIER
THIS WEEK WE HEARD FROM LISA
MURKOWSKI WHEN SHE WAS AT ONE OF
THE MICROPHONES NEAR THE SENATE
CHAMBER SHE WAS ASKED IF HE
SHOULD BE BANNED FOR OFFICE, I
AM
PARAPHRASING. SHE SAID I CAN'T
IMAGINE THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
WOULD EVER VOTE FOR HIM AGAIN
AFTER SAYING WHAT WE JUST
WITNESSED. BUT THE THOUGHT THERE
IS THERE IS SOMETIME BETWEEN NOW
AND 2024 OR WHEN HE MIGHT EVEN
WANT TO SEEK OFFICE AGAIN. HE
SAID IN HIS LAST STATEMENT ON
HER OPERATION DAY, HE SAID HE
WOULD BE BACK IN SOME FASHION SO
HE HAS BEEN VERY CLEAR THAT HIS
POLITICAL CAREER IS NOT OVER IF
HE HAS ANYTHING TO SAY ABOUT IT
AND THAT IS AT THE CORE OF THAT
THESE DEMOCRATS ARGUMENT YOU CAN
FORESEEABLY DO THIS AGAIN AND
OFTEN TIMES SOFTENS PUBLIC
OPINION
ON POLITICIAN SO HE DOES HAVE
THAT BENEFIT ALSO. EVEN THOUGH
THESE IMAGES ARE VERY WRONG
RIGHT NOW. IN 3 TO 4 YEARS IF HE
RUNS AGAIN, WILL IT BE THE SAME
CASE?
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, WE JUST SAW DAVID
SCHOEN, THE LAWYER FOR TRUMP
COMING INTO THE BUILDING. ONE OF
THE TWO MAIN LAWYERS. LET'S PLAY
IT CLIP FROM YESTERDAY'S
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER
,  THIS IS REP. TED LIEU WARNING
ABOUT DONALD TRUMP'S POLITICAL
FUTURE.
&gt;&gt; TRUMP SHOWS HE WILL
UNDOUBTEDLY CAUSE FUTURE HARM IF
ALLOWED BECAUSE HE STILL REFUSES
TO ACCOUNT FOR HIS PREVIOUS HIGH
GRADE OF CRIME AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT.
I'M NOT AFRAID OF TRUMP RUNNING
AGAIN IN FOUR YEARS, I'M AFRAID
HE'S GOING TO RUN AGAIN AND LOSE
BECAUSE HE CAN DO THIS AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, THAT SEEM TO BE A LINE
OF ARGUMENT THE RESNICK NATIVE
WITH REPUBLICANS YESTERDAY.
&gt;&gt; REPUBLICANS HAVE MADE THIS
MISTAKE NOW FOR SIX YEARS
WITH THE THING THAT LISA
MURKOWSKI SAID, REMEMBER HEARING
1 MILLION TIMES IN 2015 FROM
PEOPLE, LIKE MIKE PENCE, WHO I
INTERVIEWED AT A NATIONAL
GOVERNORS IN 2015 AND HE SAID
TRUMP COULD NEVER WIN THE
NOMINATION. SO THE IDEA HE'S
SOMEHOW NOT ABLE TO WIN AFTER
DOING SCANDALOUS OR SAYING
OUTRAGEOUS THINGS OR SOMETHING
REPUBLICANS OF FALLEN BACK ON
REPEATEDLY OVER THE YEARS. IN
FACT, I COVERED A RALLY IN 2015
OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL RIGHT BY THE
ENTRANCE WHERE TED CRUZ APPEARED
WITH TRUMP TO OPPOSE THE IRANIAN
NUCLEAR DEAL AND TED CRUZ TIED
HIMSELF AS CLOSELY AS POSSIBLE
TO TRUMP IN 2015 BECAUSE THEY
ALL ASSUMED, HIS TEAM, INCLUDING
JASON MILLER
, THEY ASSUMED TRUMP WOULD FLAME
OUT AND PEOPLE WOULDN'T VOTE FOR
HIM SO THEY ARE TRYING TO UP
HEAL
TO TRUMP SUPPORTERS BY TYING
THEMSELVES TO HIM AND REFUSING
TO CRITICIZE HIM. ULTIMATELY THE
REFUSAL TO CRITICIZE HIM MEANT
HE NEVER DID FLAMEOUT. THEY
DIDN'T ATTACK HIM UNTIL IT WAS
TOO LATE AND HE STARTED WINNING
IN A WAY THAT THE NOMINATION
COULDN'T BE DENIED ANYMORE. SO
IT DOES FEEL LIKE WE HAVE SEEN
THIS MOVIE BEFORE. I DO THINK
THAT ARGUMENT FROM REP. TED LIEU
WAS DIRECTLY AIMED AT RESPONDING
TO THAT.  IN SOME WAYS, HE HAS
MADE CLEAR
NOT ONLY THAT HE WANTS TO RUN
AGAIN OR HAVE HIS SON OR
DAUGHTER RUN AGAIN HE WANTS TO
GET BACK OUT THERE. HE WANTS TO
CONTINUE TO BE A FORCE IN THE
GOP.
ARE YOU HAVE ALL THESE PEOPLE
WHO VERY MUCH REPUBLICANS WHO
WANT TO TURN THE PAGE AND MOVE
ON FROM THE TRUMP ERA.
BUT THERE IS THIS COLLECTIVE
PROBLEM WHERE PRIVATELY THEY
DON'T WANT HIM TO RUN AGAIN BUT
THEY ARE NOT WILLING TO WALK THE
PLANK AND TAKE THE TOUGH BOAT
THAT WOULD DRAW THE IRE OF TRUMP
SUPPORTERS. THIS COLLECTIVE
ACTION PROBLEM ULTIMATELY MEANS
THAT
TRUMP IS ALL CERTAIN TO BE
ACQUITTED AND WILL CONTINUE TO
BE THE DOMINATING FORCE IN THE
GOP THROUGH AT LEAST 2024.
&gt;&gt; THIS TRIAL IS HAPPENING IN
THE SAME BUILDING THAT ATTACKERS
RANSACKED ON JANUARY 6.
OUR NATIONAL REPORTER, NICOLE
ELLIS HAS BEEN SPEAKING WITH
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TO DOCUMENT
THEIR FIRST PERSON ACCOUNTS OF
WHAT THEY WENT THROUGH THAT DAY.
THE CALL, WHAT HAVE YOU HEARD?
&gt;&gt;
NOT ONLY AS LAWMAKERS BUT WOMEN,
WOMEN OF COLOR AND MOTHERS WHICH
WAS THE CASE FOR NORMA TORRES OF
CALIFORNIA.
SHE IS A FORMER 911 CALL CENTER
DISPATCHER AND MOTHER OF THREE.
SHE WAS ON THE BALCONY OF THE
ROTUNDA, ONE OF THE LAST PLACES
TO BE EVACUATED. HERE'S WHAT SHE
HAD TO SAY IT WAS LIKE.
&gt;&gt; WE DIDN'T KNOW HOW CLOSE THEY
WERE, WE COULD HEAR THEM, WE
COULD HEAR THE BANGING AND THE
SHOUTING, BUT WE DIDN'T KNOW
THAT THEY WERE JUST OUTSIDE. ONE
OF OUR MEMBERS SITTING ON THE
OTHER SIDE BY HIMSELF. SO I RAN
TO THE OTHER SIDE OF THE BALCONY
TO BE WITH HIM BECAUSE HE WAS
SITTING BY HIMSELF AND I WALKED
OVER TO HIM AND GRABBED BOTH OF
HIS HAM'S HANDS AND THEN I SAID
GAVE HIM SOME ALCOHOL BECAUSE WE
OF THE
COVID. SO WE JUST SAT THERE,
SOME OF THE OFFICERS SAID WHEN I
TELL YOU TO RUN YOU'RE GOING TO
RUN OUT THAT DOOR. HE SAID RUN,
AT THAT TIME MY MIDDLE SON
CALLED. ALL I SAID TO HIM WAS
SWEETER, I'M OKAY,
I'M LITERALLY RUNNING FOR MY
LIFE RIGHT NOW I CAN'T TALK. HE
HAD JUST BEEN TOLD THAT THE U.S.
CAPITAL WAS UNDER SIEGE
BY PEOPLE THAT WERE LOOKING FOR
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS. YOU CAN
IMAGINE HE DIDN'T THINK HE WAS
GOING TO SEE ME AGAIN. WHAT
DONALD TRUMP HAS DONE IN FOUR
YEARS HE'S ALLOWED THESE PEOPLE
TO REMOVE THEIR CLAN HOODS AND
BE VERY OPEN AND PATENT BLATANT
ABOUT THE RACISM.
CLEARLY THIS WAS IN AN EMOTIONAL
TRAUMATIC EXPERIENCE FOR THE
CONGRESSMAN. I SPOKE TO HER
AGAIN ABOUT A WEEK AFTER OUR
ORIGINAL INTERVIEW. SHE TOLD ME
SHE WORE A BULLETPROOF VEST OF
EGGNOG INAUGURATION SHE STILL
DOESN'T FEEL SAFE AND IS STILL
DEALING WITH THE TRAUMA WHAT
HAPPENED ON JANUARY SIX.
YESTERDAY I PLAYED A TAPE OF
FIRST SAYING
HER WHITE PEERS CAN TAKE OFF
MEMBER PIN AND TRY AND BLEND IN
THE CROWD IT'S A SENTIMENT THAT
REP. DIANA DEGETTE OPEN
REMARKS. CONGRESS ONE WOMAN OF
COLOR DIDN'T FEEL LIKE LENDING
AND WAS AN OPTION FOR THEM AS
THE CROWDS MANY OF WHOM WERE
WHITE NATIONALIST SHOUTED RACIST
EPITHETS AT THEM. TODAY'S
MEETING MAY NOT FOCUS ON
EXPERIENCES LIKE CONGRESSMAN
TORRES. BUT STORIES LIKE ARE
GOING TO PLAY A ROLE IN
CONTEXTUALIZING WHAT WE HEAR
TODAY. BECAUSE THE TRAUMA WHAT
HAPPENED WON'T JUST HEAL WHEN
THIS TRIAL IS OVER REGARDLESS OF
HOW THE SENATE DECIDES TO VOTE.
BACK TO YOU, LIBBY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU NICOLE, HEARING
THOSE STORIES BRINGS IT ALL
HOME. IN THIS NEXT STORY DOES AS
WELL. WE HAD A REALLY TOUGH
REPORT BY OUR COLLEAGUE, PETER
HERMAN ABOUT ONE OF THE POLICE
OFFICERS WHO TOOK HIS OWN LIFE
AFTER THE ATTACK. DC POLICE
OFFICER JEFFREY SMITH WAS
ORDERED BACK TO WORK AFTER BEING
BADLY
INJURED IN THE C JEN INSTEAD HE
SHOT AND KILLED HIMSELF ON THE
WAY IN. HE WAS JUST 35 YEARS
OLD. POLICE FOUND HIM IN HIS
FORD MUSTANG ALONG THE GEORGE
WASHINGTON MEMORIAL PARKWAY. HE
WAS THE SECOND POLICE OFFICER
WHO HAD BEEN AT THE RIOTS WHO
TOOK HIS OWN LIFE. JAMES,
STORIES LIKE THAT REALLY HIT
HOME WITH THIS. LET'S GO TO A
SENATOR WHO IS AT THE
MICROPHONE.
&gt;&gt; THEY ASK SOME VERY INTRIGUING
QUESTIONS IF THIS IS NOT
IMPEACHABLE, WHAT IS?
WE HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT SOMEBODY
COMING BACK AND LOSING IF THIS
IS WHAT THEY DID WHEN THEY LOST
THIS TIME. THOSE A QUESTION THE
DEFENSE TEAM MUST ANSWER. I HOPE
THEY DON'T REST ENTIRELY ON
PROCESS BECAUSE
THE CONSTITUTIONALITY HAS BEEN
SETTLED. IF WE DEBATE THAT ONCE
MORE IT WILL BE A WASTE OF TIME.
I DO HOPE THEY ADDRESS
, THE TIMELINE ISSUE. I WAS
MENTIONING TO SOME OF YOUR
COLLEAGUES, THE WASHINGTON
EXAMINER, HE'S A VERY
CONSERVATIVE FELLER
WRITING ABOUT SEN. TOMMY
TUBERVILLE'S PHONE CONVERSATION
AT 2:15 PM, HE INFORMED THE
PRESIDENT  THAT THE VICE
PRESIDENT HAD JUST BEEN
EVACUATED. SO THE PRESIDENT KNEW
THE PEOPLE HAD INVADED, THEY
WERE APPROACHING THE SENATE
CHAMBER AND THE SECRET SERVICE
FELT LIKE THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS
IN TROUBLE. AND THEN A FEW
MINUTES LATER TO TRUMP TWEETED
OUT ANOTHER TWEET NEGATIVELY
AGAINST THE VICE PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE
PRESIDENT CLEARLY ACKNOWLEDGES
AT THAT POINT AND THEN THE TWEET
WENT OUT. THERE IS A LONG
TIMELINE AND SOME FOLKS DON'T
BELIEVE THAT TIMELINE BECAUSE OF
SO LONG. BUT THAT IS A SENATOR
IS PROBABLY GOING TO VOTE FOR
EQUITABLE
WRITTEN BY THE CONSERVATIVE
COMMONNESS. YOU PUT ALL THAT
TOGETHER GIVES IT SPECIAL
CREDIBILITY, NO OFFENSE TO SOME
LIBERAL MAGAZINES, JUST TEASING.
THE POINT BEING, I WOULD LIKE
BOTH SIDES TO ADDRESS THIS,
CERTAINLY THE DEFENSE TEAM. HOW
WOULD THEY EXPLAIN THAT AWAY IF
THEY ARE GOING TO EXPLAIN THAT
AWAY?
&gt;&gt; WHAT ARE SOME QUESTIONS YOU
HAVE FOR THE DEFENSE TEAM AT HER
IMPEACHMENT TODAY?
&gt;&gt; AFTER THEY MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION. I WOULD LIKE THEM
TO ADDRESS THAT LITTLE
CRYSTALLIZATION OF THE ENTIRE
TIMELINE.
&gt;&gt; WHAT IS YOUR SENSE ABOUT IF
YOU WOULD FURTHER VOTE FOR TRUMP
AGAIN?
&gt;&gt; THAT WILL BE DETERMINED IF WE
DECIDE HE IS GUILTY OR NOT.
&gt;&gt; LINDSEY GRAHAM SAID
THE NIGHT OF THE CERTIFICATION
OF THE ELECTION THAT THE JURY
HAS SPOKEN I DIDN'T LIKE THE
VERDICT BUT I WILL GO WITH THE
VERDICT. I ASSUME THAT'S WHAT
YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO DO, YOU
RESOLVE AN ISSUE AND THEN GO
FORWARD. I DO KNOW THAT TED CRUZ
JUST POSTED SOMETHING ON FOX
WEBSITE SAYING IT IS
CONSTITUTIONAL. SO I HAVE SOME
CAVEAT, MAY NOT BE WISE BUT IT
IS CONSTITUTIONAL. SO I CAN'T
SPEAK TO WHY PEOPLE DECIDE WHAT
THEY DO. I'M JUST TRYING TO
FIGURE IT OUT ON MY OWN.
&gt;&gt; MANY RESPECT THE FACT I'M
TRYING TO APPROACH IT
OBJECTIVELY. THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO RHONDA COLVIN
WITH THE TAKEAWAYS FROM SENATOR
CASSIDY'S COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: HE LOOKS LIKE HE
IS STILL VERY INTERESTED IN
HEARING THE DEFENSE ARGUE WHY
TRUMP TOOK SO LONG TO REACT AND
WHY  HE SEEMED TO BE MORE
PREOCCUPIED WITH CALLING
SEN. TOMMY TUBERVILLE TO
CONTINUE TO INTERRUPT THE
PROCEEDINGS AND THE
CERTIFICATION OF THE ELECTORAL
WENT  FOR PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN.
HE WAS MORE CONCERNED ABOUT THAT
THAN SENDING ANY HELP
OR TELLING PEOPLE OUTSIDE WHO
WERE COMING TO THE CAPITAL TO
STOP. SO THAT SEEMS TO BE A PART
OF THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
ARGUMENT. THE REALLY WORKS ON
SOMEBODY LIKE BILL CASSIDY WHO
IS SAYING RIGHT THERE HE IS
STILL OPEN TO ACQUITTAL OR
CONVICTION. HE HAS NOT MADE UP
HIS MIND. AT LAST CHECK THERE
ARE 40 SENATORS WHO WILL VOTE TO
CONVICT THEIR 21 IN THE MAYBE
COLUMN THEY HAVE NOT SAID ONE
WAY OR THE OTHER, 37 HE SAID
THEY WON'T
VOTE TO CONVICT. YOU NEED
EVERYBODY IN THE MAYBE COLUMN
AND SOME EXTRA REPUBLICANS WE
ARE ANTICIPATING TO JOIN THEM
THAT THE SUPER MAJORITY BUT IT
DOES SEEM LIKE
THE ONE PART OF THE ANTIDOTES
THAT IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS TOLD
US ON WEDNESDAY ABOUT THE FACT
THAT THE PRESIDENT WAS MORE
INTERESTED IN GIVING A CALL TO
SENATOR TURBERVILLE THAN SENDING
ANY HELP TO THE SENATORS AND
VICE PRESIDENT WHO WERE UNDER
SIEGE. AND JUST FOR ANYBODY FROM
HOME, HE'S A FRESHMAN SENATOR IN
ALABAMA HE RAN ON A VERY
PRO-TRUMP PLATFORM AND MOST OF
HIS CAMPAIGN WAS ABOUT TRUMP. HE
TOLD THE PEOPLE OF ALABAMA, ONE
OF THE STATE THAT HAS A HIGH
MARGIN IN OF SUPPORT FOR
FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP.
HE TOLD THEM HE WOULD GO THROUGH
TO WASHINGTON AND PUT THROUGH
TRUMP'S AGENDA AND THAT WORKED
FOR HIM. SO HE IS A KEY PERSON
THE TRUMP TEAM WANTED TO GET
INTO CONTACT WITH. WE ALSO HEARD
THAT RUDY GIULIANI CALLED
SEN. TOMMY TUBERVILLE, WE NEEDED
TO SLOW THINGS DOWN. THAT'S WHY
HE WAS A MEMBER THAT WAS
TARGETED.  HE IS A FRESHMAN
MEMBER AND ALLY OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; APPRECIATE THE CONTEXT IS
ALSO ONE OF THE ONES TO FLIRT
WITH NOT VOTING TO CERTIFY THE
ELECTION. HE WASN'T BEHOLDEN TO
MITCH McCONNELL AS OTHER
REPUBLICANS WERE. HE WAS SEEN AS
A VULNERABLE REPUBLICAN FOR
TRUMP TO ALLY HIMSELF WITH.
THANK YOU RHONDA. I WANT TO GO
TO JAMES HOHMANN,
ANYONE WHO IS JUST LISTENING TO
THIS AND DIDN'T HAVE A POLITICAL
AGENDA MIGHT BE ASKING SOME
GENUINE AND AUTHENTIC QUESTIONS
HERE WHICH IS WHAT
SENATOR CASSIDY IS COMMUNICATING
SOME OF THIS IS ABOUT POLITICAL
THEATER.
SIGNIFICANT TO HEAR THOSE. I'M
INTERESTED TO HEAR IF YOU HAVE
REMARKS ON THERE.
WASHINGTON DC POLICE OFFICERS
WHAT THEY DEALT WITH ON JANUARY
6.
THAT WAS ALSO WHY WASN'T THE
PRESIDENT SPEAKING OUT ABOUT THE
VIOLENCE AGAINST POLICE
OFFICERS. ABOUT TWO OFFICERS WHO
KILLED THEMSELVES IN THE
AFTERMATH.
&gt;&gt; LIBBY, THAT WAS SOME OF THE
MOST COMPELLING EFFORTS GIVEN BY
THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
, THE LINE HAS BEEN BREACHED,
THIS WAS DEEPLY TRAUMATIZING FOR
A LOT OF OFFICERS NOT JUST THE
TWO WHO HAVE TAKEN THEIR OWN
LIVES.
&gt;&gt; LET'S SEE IF WE CAN GET WITH
JOYCE KOH BRIEFLY BEFORE WE HEAD
TO THE TRIAL.  SHE IS BEEN
OUTSIDE THE WHITE HOUSE AND SHE
IS WATCHING WHAT'S GOING ON.
&gt;&gt;
PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN CUTTING
THROUGH SOME OF THAT IMPEACHMENT
NEWS WITH THE LARGE BIG
ANNOUNCEMENT OF HIS OWN HIS
ADMINISTRATION HAS SECURED 200
MILLION CORONAVIRUS VACCINES
THEY HAD PROMISED.
SAYING THERE ARE 300 MILLION
VACCINES THAT SHOULD BE READY
AND AVAILABLE TO AMERICANS BY
JULY DISTRIBUTION COULD CHANGE
THAT DATE AS TO WHEN AMERICANS
ACTUALLY GET THOSE VACCINES.
TOTAL OF 300 MILLION VACCINES TO
BE READY BY JULY. DURING THOSE
REMARKS YESTERDAY HE ALSO
CRITICIZED THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION ON WHAT HE CALLS
A GIANT LOGISTICAL ISSUE WITH
THE VACCINE SUPPLY. HE SAID WHEN
HE TOOK OFFICE THERE WAS AN
IMPRESSION BY THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION THAT THERE WAS
SOME SORT OF DISTRIBUTION HOLD
UP. HE SAID YESTERDAY THERE WAS
AN ISSUE WITH QUOTE, SUPPLIED BY
THE TIME WE WERE ELECTED IN THE
TIME SOMEONE REALIZE WE ARE
ELECTED. PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN IS
WALKING AROUND THE WHITE HOUSE
GROUNDS WITH
DR. JILL BIDEN. HE WAS ASKED
ABOUT THE IMPEACHMENT THIS
MORNING, TAKE A LISTEN TO WHAT
HE SAID TODAY?
&gt;&gt; I'M ANXIOUS TO SEE
WHAT OUR REPUBLICANS FRIENDS DO,
IF THEY STAND UP.
&gt;&gt; YOU ARE NOT SPEAKING WITH ANY
OF THEM?
&gt;&gt; NO, NO I AM NOT.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: IS IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL LIKELY CONTINUES INTO THE
WEEKEND, PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN
WILL BE GETTING ON A PLANE
TONIGHT  TO HEAD TO CAMP DAVID
AND HE WILL BE THERE THROUGH
PRESIDENTS' DAY WEEKEND.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, JOYCE KOH, JAMES
HOHMANN,
IT'S INTERESTING TO HEAR WHAT
PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN IS SAYING IN
TERMS OF REPUBLICANS AND THE
ROLE RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; CLEARLY PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN
WANTS TO ENGAGE. HE'S TRYING TO
SHOW THAT HE'S FOCUSED ON WHAT
AMERICANS ARE CONCERNED ABOUT.
THIS IS REALLY A TEST
IF HALF A DOZEN REPUBLICANS VOTE
TO CONVICT TRUMP, THAT IS AN
EARLY SIGN EVEN THOUGH THEY
DON'T
VOTE FOR RELIEF PACKAGE THEY
MIGHT BE WILLING TO SUPPORT THE
ELEMENTS OF BIDEN'S AGENDA THIS
YEAR.
&gt;&gt; EVERYONE IS GETTING READY AND
THE CHAMBER OF THE SENATE HERE
AT
WE WILL HEAR FROM THE SENATE
CHAPLAIN, BARRY BLACK AS HE
DELIVERS THE OPENING PRAYER
WHICH
RINGS IN THE EARS MANY OF THE
JURORS AS THEY PREPARE FOR THE
DAY. AND THEN IT IS UP TO FORMER
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S TEAM.
THE ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT NOW
BEFORE THE SENATE
IS AN UNJUST AND BLATANTLY
UNCONSTITUTIONAL ACT OF
POLITICAL VENGEANCE. THIS
APPALLING ABUSE OF THE
CONSTITUTION FURTHER DIVIDES OUR
NATION WHEN WE SHOULD BE TRYING
TO COME TOGETHER AROUND SHARED
PRIORITIES. LIKE EVERY OTHER
POLITICALLY MOTIVATED WITCHHUNT
THAT THE LEFT HAS ENGAGED IN
OVER THE LAST FOUR YEARS. THIS
IMPEACHMENT IS COMPLETELY
DIVORCED FROM THE FACTS,
EVIDENCE, AND THE INTEREST OF
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE THE SENATE
SHOULD PROMPTLY AND DECISIVELY
VOTE TO REJECT IT.
NO THINKING PERSON COULD
SERIOUSLY BELIEVE THAT THE
PRESIDENT'S JANUARY 6 THE SPEECH
WAS IN ANY WAY AN ASSIGNMENT TO
VIOLENCE OR INSURRECTION. THE
SUGGESTION IS ABSURD. NOTHING
COULD EVER BE CONSTRUED AS
ENCOURAGING CONDONING, OR
ENTICING UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY OF
ANY KIND
. FAR FROM
PROVOKING INSURRECTION. THE
PRESENTS REMARKS ENCOURAGE THOSE
IN ATTENTION TO EXERCISE THEIR
RIGHTS PEACEFULLY AND
PATRIOTICALLY. PEACEFUL AND
PATRIOTIC
PROTEST IS THE ANTITHESIS OF A
VIOLENT ASSAULT ON THE NATIONS
CAPITOL.  THE SLANDER SAYS THAT
THEY EXPECTED THE CROWD TO
INTERFERE WITH THE CERTIFICATION
OF THE RESULTS OF THE 2020
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
THIS HAS BEEN DISPROVEN BY THE
PLAIN TEXT OF THE REMARKS. THE
PRESIDENT DEVOTED HIS ENTIRE
SPEECH TO AN EXTENDED DISCUSSION
OF HOW LEGISLATORS
SHOULD VOTE ON THE QUESTION AT
HAND. INSTEAD OF EXPRESSING THE
DESIRE THAT THE JOINT SESSION BE
PREVENTED FROM CONDUCTING ITS
BUSINESS, THE ENTIRE PREMISE OF
ITS REMARKS IS THAT THE
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS WOULD AND
SHOULD PLAY OUT ACCORDING TO THE
LETTER OF THE LAW. INCLUDING THE
CONSTITUTION AND THE ELECTRICAL
ELECTORIAL
COUNT ACT. HE THEN LAID OUT A
SERIES OF LEGISLATIVE STEPS THAT
SHOULD BE TAKEN TO IMPROVE
DEMOCRATIC ACCOUNTABILITY GOING
FORWARD
. SUCH AS PASSING UNIVERSAL
VOTER I.D. LEGISLATION
. AND TURNING OUT STRONG IN THE
NEXT PRIMARY. NOT ONLY
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP SPEECH ON
JANUARY 6th, HIS ENTIRE
CHALLENGE TO THE ELECTION
RESULTS WERE SQUARELY FOCUSED ON
HOW THE
PROPER CIVIC PROCESS COULD
ADDRESS ANY CONCERNS THROUGH THE
ESTABLISHED LEGAL AND
CONSTITUTIONAL SYSTEM. THE
PRESIDENT BROUGHT HIS CASE
BEFORE STATE AND FEDERAL COURTS
, THE U.S. SUPREME COURT, THE
STATE LEGISLATURE, THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE AND THE U.S. CONGRESS.
IN THE PAST NUMEROUS CANDIDATES
FOR PRESIDENT HAVE USE THE SAME
PROCESS TO PURSUE THEIR OWN
ELECTION CHALLENGES. AS RECENTLY
AS 2016 THE CLINTON CAMPAIGN
BROUGHT MULTIPLE POST ELECTION
COURT CASES AND DEMANDED
RECOUNTS AND DECLARED THE
ELECTION STOLEN BY RUSSIA. MANY
DEMOCRATS PERSUADED TO
ENCOURAGE THE RESULTS TO BE
OVERTURNED IN 2016. HOUSE
MANAGER RASKIN OBJECTED TO THE
CERTIFICATION OF  PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP'S A VICTORY
. YOU REMEMBER IT WAS A JOE
BIDEN WHO HAD A GAVEL HIM DOWN
&gt;&gt; OBJECTION. 10 OF THE 29
ELECTORIAL VOTES WERE CAST BY
NONCERTIFIED.
&gt;&gt; I OBJECT TO THE CERTIFICATE
FROM THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
&gt;&gt; I SUBJECT TO THE CERTIFICATE
FROM GEORGIA
&gt;&gt; I OBJECT
TO THE 15 VOTES FROM THE STATE
OF NORTH CAROLINA.
&gt;&gt; I OBJECT TO THE CERTIFICATE
FROM THE STATE OF ALABAMA. THE
ELECTORIAL'S WERE NOT SIGNED BY
THE SENATOR.
&gt;&gt; THE OBJECTION CANNOT BE
ENTERTAINED.
BUT THERE IS NO DEBATE BY THE
JOINT SESSION.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS NO DEBATE
.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS NO DEBATE. PLEASE
COME TO ORDER. YOUR OBJECTION
CANNOT BE RECEIVED. IT PROHIBITS
DEBATE IN THE JOINT SESSION.
&gt;&gt; I DO NOT WISH TO DEBATE.
&gt;&gt; I WISH TO ASK IF THERE'S ONE
THAT UNITED STATES SENATOR WHO
WILL JOIN ME.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS NO DEBATE.
&gt;&gt; IN 2000 THE DISPUTE
OVER THE OUTCOME WAS TAKEN TO
THE SUPREME COURT THAT RENDERED
A DECISION TO LITIGATE QUESTIONS
OF AN ELECTION INTEGRITY WITHIN
THE SYSTEM
IS NOT INCITEMENT TO
RESURRECTION. IT IS THE
DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM WORKING AS THE
FOUNDERS AND THE LAWMAKERS HAVE
DESIGNED. TO CLAIM THAT THE
PRESIDENT IN ANY WAY WISH,
DESIRED, OR ENCOURAGED
LAWLESS OR VIOLENT BEHAVIOR WAS
A PREPOSTEROUS AND MONSTROUS
LIE. IN FACT THE FIRST TWO
MESSAGES THAT THE PRESIDENT SENT
VIA TWITTER WERE "STAY PEACEFUL,
NO VIOLENCE, WE ARE THE PARTY OF
LAW AND ORDER". THE GATHERING ON
JANUARY 6th WAS POST TO BE UP
PEACEFUL EVENT. MAKE NO MISTAKE
ABOUT THAT. AND THE OVERWHELMING
MAJORITY OF THOSE IN ATTENDANCE
REMAINED PEACEFUL. AS EVERYBODY
KNOWS THE PRESIDENT HAD A SPOKEN
AT HUNDREDS OF LARGE RALLIES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY OVER THE PAST
FIVE YEARS. THERE HAD NEVER BEEN
ANY MOB
LIKE BEHAVIOR. A SIGNIFICANT
PORTION OF EACH EVENT WAS
DEVOTED TO CELEBRATING THE RULE
OF LAW. PROTECTING OUR
CONSTITUTION, AND HONORING THE
MEN AND WOMEN OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT. CONTRASTS THE
PRESIDENT'S REPEATED
CONDEMNATIONS OF VIOLENCE WITH
THE RHETORIC OF HIS OPPONENTS.
&gt;&gt; I AM A PRESIDENT OF LAW AND
ORDER. AND AN OUTLAY OF ALL
PEACEFUL PROTESTERS.
&gt;&gt; THE MASS MAJORITY OF THE
PROTESTS HAVE BEEN PEACEFUL.
&gt;&gt; REPUBLICANS STAND FOR LAW AND
ORDER AND JUSTICE.
&gt;&gt; I DO NOT KNOW WHY THEY'RE NOT
UPRISINGS ALL OVER THE COUNTRY?
MAYBE THERE WILL BE ?
&gt;&gt; I STAND AGAINST VIOLENCE,
MAYHEM, AND ORDER. I STAND WITH
THE HEROES OF LAW AND ORDER.
WE WILL NEVER DEFUND OUR POLICE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK YOU NEED TO GO BACK
AND PUNCH HIM IN THE FACE.
&gt;&gt; EVERYBODY WANTS LAW AND
ORDER.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE RELEASED THE
WHIRLWIND, KAVANAUGH, AND YOU
WILL PAY THE
PRICE.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TO HAVE A LAW AND
ORDER.
&gt;&gt; SHOW ME WHERE PROTESTERS HAVE
TO BE POLITE AND PEACEFUL.
&gt;&gt; WE BELIEVE IN LAW AND ORDER.
&gt;&gt; TRAGICALLY ON A JANUARY 6th A
SMALL GROUP WHO CAME TO ENGAGE
IN VIOLENT  BEHAVIOR HIJACKED
THE EVENT FOR THEIR OWN PURPOSES
. ACCORDING TO PUBLICLY
AVAILABLE REPORTING AND APPARENT
THAT EXTREMISTS
HAVE A VERY STRIPES AND
POLITICAL PERSUASION PREPLANNED
AND PREMEDITATED PLAN ON THE
CAPITAL
CAPITOL. ONE OF THE FIRST ARREST
WAS A LEADER OF ANTIFA.  HE WAS
AMONG THE FIRST TO BE RELEASED
FROM THE BEGINNING THE PRESIDENT
HAS BEEN CLEAR THE CRIMINALS WHO
INFILTRATED THE CAPITAL MUST BE
PUNISHED TO THE FULL EXTENT OF
THE LAW. AND SHOULD BE IN PRISON
AS LONG AS THE LAW ALLOWS. THE
FACT THAT THE ATTACKS WERE
PREMEDITATED AS ALLEGED
DEMONSTRATES THE LUDICROUSNESS.
YOU CANNOT
INCITE WHAT WAS ALREADY GOING TO
HAPPEN. LAW-ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
CONDUCTED THEMSELVES HEROICALLY,
COURAGEOUSLY, AND ARE COUNTRY
OWES THEM A NET ETERNAL DEBT.
&gt;&gt; THERE MUST BE A DISCUSSION OF
THE DECISION BY POLITICAL
LEADERSHIP REGARDING FORCED
POSTURE AND SECURITY IN ADVANCE
OF THE EVENT. AS MANY WILL
RECALL, LAST SUMMER THE WHITE
HOUSE WAS FACED WITH VIOLENT
RIOTERS
, NIGHT AFTER NIGHT. THEY ATTACK
SECRET SERVICE OFFICERS AND
PIERCED IS SECURITY WALL.
AND THAT CAUSE THE CLEARING OF
LAFAYETTE SQUARE. SINCE THAT
TIME THERE HAS BEEN A SUSTAINED
NEGATIVE NARRATIVE IN THE MEDIA
REGARDING THE NECESSITY OF THOSE
SECURITY MEASURES ON THAT NIGHT.
EVEN THOUGH THEY PREVENTED MANY
CALAMITIES FROM OCCURRING. IN
THE WAKE OF THE CAPITOL ATTACK.
CONSIDER THIS.
ON JANUARY 5th. THE MAYOR OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA DISCOURAGED
THE NATIONAL GUARD AND FEDERAL
AUTHORITIES FROM DOING MORE TO
PROTECT THE CAPITOL. AND SAYING
"THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA IS NOT
REQUESTING OTHER FEDERAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL, AND
DISCOURAGES ANY ADDITIONAL
DEPLOYMENT". BUT THIS
SERIOUS THREAT TO LEADERS OF
BOTH PARTIES AT EVERY LEVEL OF
GOVERNMENT. THE SENATE SHOULD BE
CAREFUL OF THE PRESIDENT
PRECEDENT THAT THIS CASE WILL
SET
UP. IF YOU DO NOT FIGHT LIKE
HELL, YOU'RE NOT GOING TO HAVE A
COUNTRY ANYMORE.
THIS IS ORDINARY POLITICAL
RHETORIC THAT IS
INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM THE
LANGUAGE THAT HAS BEEN USED FROM
PEOPLE ACROSS THE POLITICAL
SPECTRUM FOR HUNDREDS OF YEARS.
COUNTLESS POLITICIANS HAVE
SPOKEN OF FIGHTING FOR OUR
PRINCIPLES. JOE BIDEN'S CAMPAIGN
SLOGAN WAS
"BATTLE FOR THE SOUL OF
AMERICA". NO HUMAN BEING
BELIEVES THAT SUCH USE OF
METAPHORICAL TERMINOLOGY IS
INCITEMENT TO POLITICAL VIOLENCE
. WHILE THE PRESIDENT DID NOT
ENGAGE IN ANY LANGUAGE OF
INCITEMENT. THERE ARE NUMEROUS
OFFICIALS IN WASHINGTON WHO HAVE
INDEED USED PROFOUNDLY RECKLESS,
DANGEROUS, AND INFLAMMATORY
RHETORIC IN RECENT YEARS. THE
ENTIRE DEMOCRATIC PARTY AND
NATIONAL NEWS MEDIA SPENT THE
LAST FOUR YEARS REPEATING
WITHOUT ANY EVIDENCE
THAT THE 2016 ELECTION HAD BEEN
HACKED. AND FALSELY CLAIMED THAT
THE PRESENT UNITED STATES WAS A
RUSSIAN SPY. HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY
PELOSI SAID THAT THE 2016
ELECTION WAS HIJACKED AND THAT
CONGRESS HAS A DUTY TO PROTECT
OUR DEMOCRACY. SHE ALSO CALLED
THE PRESIDENT AN IMPOSTER AND A
TRAITOR AND REFERRED TO HER
COLLEAGUES IN THE HOUSE AS THE
ENEMY WITHIN MANY DEMOCRATS
POLITICIANS ENDORSE THE RIOTS
THAT DESTROYED VAST SWATHS OF
AMERICAN CITIES LAST SUMMER.
WHEN VIOLENT ANARCHISTS
CONTAINED A FEDERAL COURTHOUSE
IN
HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI DID
NOT CALL IT AN INSURRECTION,
INSTEAD SHE CALLED THE OFFICERS
PROTECTING THE BUILDING STORM
TROOPERS
. WHEN VIOLENT MOBS DESTROYED
PUBLIC PROPERTY SHE SAID PEOPLE
WILL DO WHAT THEY DO. THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS STATED THAT
AMERICA IS BURNING, BUT THAT IS
HOW FORESTS GROW.
DECLARING THAT THERE NEEDS TO BE
UNREST IN THE STREETS FOR AS
LONG AS THERE IS UNREST IN OUR
LIVES
. THE CURRENT VICE PRESIDENT
URGED SUPPORTERS TO DONATE TO A
FUND THAT BAILED OUT VIOLENT
RIOTERS  OUT OF JAIL.
RELEASED AND WENT OUT AND
COMMITTED AN ASSAULT. HE BEAT
SOMEBODY.
SHE SAID OF THE VIOLENT
DEMONSTRATIONS. EVERYONE BEWARE.
THEY WILL NOT STOP BEFORE
ELECTION DAY AND THEY WILL NOT
STOP AFTER ELECTION DAY. THEY
WILL NOT LET UP. AND THE SHOULD
NOT. SUCH RHETORIC CONTINUED
EVEN AS HUNDREDS OF POLICE
OFFICERS ACROSS THE NATION WORK
SUBJECTED TO VIOLENT ASSAULTS AT
THE HANDS OF ANGRY MOBS. A MAN
CLAIMING TO BE INSPIRED BY THE
JUNIOR
SENATOR TO VERMONT CAME DOWN
HERE TO WASHINGTON, D.C. TO
WATCH A SOFTBALL GAME AND KILL
AS MANY SENATORS AND CONGRESSMEN
AS HE COULD. THAT CANNOT BE
FORGOTTEN THAT TRUMP DID NOT
BLAME THE JUNIOR SENATOR. THE
SENIOR SENATOR FROM MAINE HAS
HAD HER HOUSE SURROUNDED BY
ANGRY MOBS AND PROTESTERS. WHEN
IT HAPPENED IT UNNERVED HER. ONE
OF THE HOUSE MANAGERS TWEETED
CRIMEA RIVER.
EACH OF THESE INDIVIDUALS SHOULD
BE RETROACTIVELY CENSORED,
EXPELLED, PUNISHED, OR IMPEACHED
FOR INCITING VIOLENCE BY THEIR
SUPPORTERS. UNLIKE THE LEFT
, PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP HAS
BEEN CONSISTENT IN HIS
OPPOSITION TO MOB VIOLENCE. HE
OPPOSES IT IN ALL FORMS AND IN
ALL PLACES.
JUST AS HE HAS BEEN CONSISTENT
THAT THE NATIONAL GUARD SHOULD
BE DEPLOYED TO PROTECT AMERICAN
COMMITTEES OR WHEREVER
PROTECTION IS NEEDED. FOR
DEMOCRATS THEY HAVE DEMONSTRATED
THAT THERE ARE PETITIONS TO MOBS
AND USING THE NATIONAL GUARD
DEPENDS ON THE MOBS POLITICAL
VIEWS NOT ONLY IS THIS CASE
WRONG ON THE FACTS. NO
OBJECTED. IT'S UNCONSTITUTIONAL
. CONGRESS WOULD BE CLAIMING
THAT THE RIGHT TO DISQUALIFY A
PRIVATE CITIZEN NO LONGER A
GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL, FROM
RUNNING FOR PUBLIC OFFICE WOULD
TRANSFORM THE SOLEMN IMPEACHMENT
PROCESS INTO A MECHANISM FOR
INSERTING CONGRESSIONAL CONTROL
OVER WHICH PRIVATE CITIZENS ARE
AND ARE NOT ALLOWED TO RUN FOR
PRESIDENT. IN SHORT THIS
UNPRECEDENTED EFFORT IS NOT
ABOUT DEMOCRATS OPPOSING
POLITICAL VIOLENCE. IT IS ABOUT
DEMOCRATS TRYING TO DISQUALIFY
POLITICAL OPPOSITION
. IT IS A CONSTITUTIONAL CANCEL
CULTURE. IN HISTORY WILL RECORD
THIS SHAMEFUL EFFORT TO SMEAR,
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP THAT THE
75 MILLION AMERICANS WHO VOTED
FOR HIM. NOW IS NOT THE TIME FOR
SUCH A CAMPAIGN OF RETRIBUTION.
IT IS TIME FOR UNITY AND
HEALING.
AND FOCUSING ON THE INTEREST OF
THE NATION AS A WHOLE. WE SHOULD
ALL BE SEEKING TO COOL
TEMPERATURES, CALM PASSIONS,
RISE ABOVE PARTISAN LINES. THE
SENATE SHOULD REJECT
THE DEVICE OF AN
UNCONSTITUTIONAL EFFORT AND
ALLOW THE NATION TO MOVE FORWARD
. OVER THE COURSE OF THE NEXT
THREE HOURS OR SO YOU WILL HEAR
FROM DAVID SCHOEN WHO WILL BE
TALKING ABOUT  DUE PROCESS. I
WILL RETURN WITH AN ANALYSIS OF
WHY THE FIRST AMENDMENT MUST BE
PROPERLY APPLIED. AND THEN
BRUCE CASTOR WILL DISCUSS THE
LAW AS IT APPLIES TO THE SPEECH
OF  JANUARY 6th. AND THEN WE
WILL BE PLEASED TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTIONS. THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt;
GOOD AFTERNOON, SENATORS
. THROUGHOUT THE COURSE OF THE
DAY MY COLLEAGUES AND I WILL
EXPLAIN THE SIMPLE FACT THAT THE
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP DID NOT
INCITE THE TERRIBLE RIOTS ON A
JANUARY 6th.  THEY WILL
DEMONSTRATE THAT THE VIOLENCE
AND LOOTING GOES AGAINST THE LAW
AND ORDER MESSAGE THAT HE
CONVEYS TO EVERY CITIZEN OF THE
UNITED STATES THROUGHOUT HIS
PRESIDENCY. INCLUDING ON THE
TRAN41. FIRST WE WOULD LIKE TO
DISCUSS THE HATRED, THE
POLITICAL OPPORTUNISM THAT HAS
BROUGHT US HERE TODAY
. THE HATRED THAT THE HOUSE
MANAGERS AND OTHERS ON THE LEFT
HAVE FOR PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
HAS DRIVEN THEM TO SKIP THE
BASIC ELEMENTS OF DUE PROCESS
AND FAIRNESS. AND TO RUSH AN
IMPEACHMENT THROUGH THE HOUSE
CLAIMING URGENCY.
THE HOUSE WAITED TO DELIVER THE
ARTICLES TO THE SENATE FOR TWO
WEEKS. ONLY AFTER DEMOCRATS HAD
SECURED CONTROL OVER THE SENATE.
CONTRARY TO THEIR CLAIM THAT THE
ONLY REASON THAT THEY HELD IT
WAS BECAUSE SENATOR McCONNELL
WILL NOT ACCEPT THE ARTICLE. IT
WAS MADE CLEAR THAT THEY HAD
CONSIDERED HOLDING THE ARTICLES
FOR 100 DAYS, TO PROVIDE
PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN
PATHWAY TO IMPLEMENT HIS AGENDA.
OUR CONSTITUTION AND ANY BASIC
FAIRNESS REQUIRES THAT EVERY
LEGAL PROCESS WITH SIGNIFICANT
CONSEQUENCES FOR A PERSON'S LIFE
, INCLUDING IMPEACHMENT REQUIRES
DUE PROCESS UNDER THE LAW WHICH
INCLUDES FACT-FINDING AND THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF A LEGITIMATE
RECORD WITHIN
A APPROPRIATE FOUNDATION. EVEN
LAST YEAR'S IMPEACHMENT HEARING
FOLLOWED MONTHS OF INVESTIGATION
AND EXAMINATION. HERE PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP AND HIS COUNSEL
WERE GIVEN NO OPPORTUNITY TO
REVIEW EVIDENCE OR QUESTION THE
PROPRIETY. THE RUSH TO JUDGMENT
FOR A SNAP IMPEACHMENT IN THIS
CASE WAS ONE EXAMPLE OF THE
DENIAL OF DUE PROCESS. MORE
VITALLY SIGNIFICANT EXAMPLE WAS
THE DENIAL OF ANY OPPORTUNITY
EVER TO TEST THE INTEGRITY OF
THE EVIDENCE OFFERED AGAINST
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP AND A
PROCEEDING SEEKING TO BAR HIM
FROM EVER HOLDING PUBLIC OFFICE
AGAIN, THAT SEEKS TO
DISENFRANCHISE 75 MILLION
AMERICAN VOTERS.
THIS WEEK COUNTLESS NEWS OUTLETS
REPEATED THAT THE DEMOCRAT
TALKING POINT ABOUT THE POWER OF
NEVER BEFORE SEEN FOOTAGE. LET
ME ASK YOU THIS, WHY WAS THIS
FOOTAGE NEVER SEEN BEFORE?
SHOULDN'T THE SUBJECT OF AN
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL HAVE THE RIGHT
TO SEE THE NEW EVIDENCE AGAINST
HIM? AND THE RIOT AN ATTACK ON
THIS VERY
BUILDING WAS A MAJOR EVENT THAT
SHOCKED AND IMPACTED ALL
AMERICANS. SHOULDN'T THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE SEEN THIS
FOOTAGE AS SOON AS IT WAS
AVAILABLE? FOR WHAT POSSIBLE
REASON DID THEY WITHHOLD IT FROM
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S
LAWYERS? FOR POLITICAL GAIN?
HOW DID THEY GET IT? HOW ARE
THEY RELEASING IT? IT'S EVIDENT
IN HUNDREDS OF CASES AGAINST THE
RIOTERS. WHY WASN'T REALLY
THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT  IS
IT THE RESULT OF A RUSHED SNAP
IMPEACHMENT FOR POLITICAL GAIN
WITHOUT DUE PROCESS? HOUSE
MANAGER RASKIN TOLD US THAT YOUR
JOB  AS A JUROR IS A FACT
INTENSIVE JOB.
OF COURSE OF SEVERAL OF THE
HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE TOLD YOU WE
STILL DO NOT HAVE THE FACTS.
HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI ON
FEBRUARY 2nd CALLED FOR A 9/11
STYLE COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE
THE EVENTS OF JANUARY 6th.
HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI SAID
THAT THE COMMISSION IS NEEDED TO
DETERMINE THE CAUSES OF THE
EVENTS.
SHE SAYS IT HERSELF. IF AN
INQUIRY OF THAT MAGNITUDE IS
NEEDED TO DETERMINE THE CAUSES
OF THE RIOT, AND IT MAY VERY
WELL BE. HOW CAN THE SAME
DEMOCRATS HAVE THE CERTAINTY
NEEDED TO BRING ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT, AND BLAME THE RIOTS
ON PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP. THEY
DO NOT. THE HOUSE MANAGERS
FACING A SIGNIFICANT LACK OF
EVIDENCE TURNED TO PRESS REPORTS
AND RUMORS.
CLAIMS IT WOULD NEVER MEET THE
EVIDENTIARY STANDARDS OF ANY
COURT. THEY RELIED ON THE
WORDS OF ANDREW FEINBERG.
REPORTER WHO WORKED FOR SPUTNIK,
THE RUSSIAN PROPAGANDA OUTLET.
THE FREQUENCY WITH WHICH
HOUSE MANAGERS RELY ON MEDIA
REPORTS SHOCKED ME AS I SAT IN
THIS CHAMBER AND LISTEN TO THIS.
BUT THERE'S A LOT WE DON'T KNOW
YET ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED TODAY.
EXPECT MAJOR NEWS NETWORKS
INCLUDING FOX NEWS.
&gt;&gt; REPORTED.
&gt;&gt;
MEDIA REPORTS.
&gt;&gt; ACCORDING TO REPORTS.
&gt;&gt; AS ANY TRIAL LAWYER WILL TELL
YOU REPORTING IS A USE IT IS HIM
FOR I HAVE NO REAL EVIDENCE
. IS NOT THE STANDARD IN ANY
AMERICAN SETTING WHERE ANY
SEMBLANCE OF DUE PROCESS OF THE
ACCUSE.
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE. IT IS
AS RELIABLE AS I GOOGLED THIS
FOR YOU.
YOU GET MORE DUE PROCESS WHEN
YOU FIGHT A PARKING TICKET
.
IT REQUIRES AN OPPORTUNITY TO
TEST THE INTEGRITY, THE
CREDIBILITY, THE RELIABILITY OF
THE EVIDENCE. HERE OF COURSE
FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
WAS DENIED ANY SUCH OPPORTUNITY
. AND IT TURNS OUT THAT THERE IS
SIGNIFICANT REASON TO DOUBT THE
EVIDENCE THAT HOUSE MANAGERS
HAVE PUT BEFORE US. WHEN HE SAY
THIS CLEARLY. WE HAVE REASON TO
BELIEVE THAT THE HOUSE MANAGERS
MANIPULATED EVIDENCE AND
SELECTIVELY EDITED FOOTAGE. IF
THEY DID AND THIS WAS A COURT OF
LAW THEY WOULD FACE SANCTIONS
FROM THE
JUDGE. I DO NOT RAISE THIS ISSUE
LIGHTLY. IT IS A PRODUCT OF WHAT
WE HAVE FOUND IN JUST A LIMITED
TIME THAT WE HAVE HAD SINCE WE
FIRST SAW THE EVIDENCE PRESENTED
HERE WITH YOU THIS WEEK. WE HAVE
REASON TO BELIEVE THAT THE HOUSE
MANAGERS CRATED FALSE
REPRESENTATIONS OF TWEETS, AND
THE LACK OF DUE PROCESS THAT
MEANS THAT THERE WAS NO
OPPORTUNITY TO REVIEW OR VERIFY
THE ACCURACY. CONSIDER THESE
FACTS. THE HOUSE MANAGERS PROUD
OF THEIR WORK ON THE SNAP
IMPEACHMENT STAGED NUMEROUS
PHOTO SHOOTS OF THEIR
PREPARATIONS.
IN ONE OF THOSE MANAGER RASKIN
IS SEEN  REVIEWING TWO
TWEETS SIDE BY SIDE. THE IMAGE
ON HIS SCREEN SHOWS THAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP HAD
RETWEETED ONE OF THOSE TWEETS.
NOW MEMBERS OF THE SENATE LET'S
LOOK CLOSELY AT THE SCREEN.
BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY MANAGER RASKIN
CONSIDERED IT  IMPORTANT
ENOUGH THAT HE INVITED THE NEW
YORK TIMES TO WATCH HIM WATCH
IT. WHAT IS WRONG WITH THIS
IMAGE?
THERE ARE THREE THINGS VERY
WRONG WITH IT. LOOK AT THE DATE
ON THE BOTTOM OF THE SCREEN ON
THE BOTTOM OF MANAGER RASKIN
SCREEN. IT IS  JANUARY 3rd,
2020. NOT 2021. WHY IS
WRONG?
BECAUSE THIS IS NOT A REAL
SCREENSHOT THAT HE IS WORKING
WITH. THIS IS A RE-CREATION OF A
TWEET AND YOU GOT THE DATE WRONG
WHEN YOU MANUFACTURED THE
GRAPHIC. YOU DID NOT DISCLOSE
THAT THIS WAS A MANUFACTURED
GRAPHIC.
AND THE HOUSE MANAGERS COPIER
BEFORE SHOWING IT ON THE SENATE
FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; YOU NEVER SOUGHT WHEN IT WAS
PRESENTED TO YOU. THAT IS NOT
ALL
. THEY DID NOT FIX THIS ONE.
LOOK AT THE BLUE CHECK MARK NEXT
TO THE TWITTER USERNAME OF THE
ACCOUNT RETWEETED BY THE
PRESIDENT THAT INDICATES OF THIS
IS A VERIFIED ACCOUNT. GIVEN
THAT BLUE CHECK BY TWITTER
SHOWING THAT IS RUN BY A PUBLIC
FIGURE. THE PROBLEM? THE USERS
REAL ACCOUNT IS NOT
HAS NO BLUE CHECK MARK AS YOU
CAN SEE. WERE YOU TRYING TO MAKE
HER ACCOUNT SEE MORE SIGNIFICANT
OR YOU JUST SLOPPY? WE HAD DUE
PROCESS WE WOULD KNOW THE TRUTH.
THAT IS NOT ALL THAT IS WRONG
WITH THIS ONE TWEET. THE HOUSE
MANAGER SHOWED THIS TWEET AND
EMPHASIZED THAT THIS TWEET
REFLECTED A CALL TO ARMS. AND
TOLD YOU REPEATEDLY THAT THIS
WAS A PROMISE TO CALL IN THE
CALVARY ON JANUARY 6th. AND LEAD
YOU TO BELIEVE THAT A TRUMP
SUPPORTER  BELIEVE THAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTED ARMED
SUPPORTERS AT THE SPEECH ON
JANUARY 6th. THE CALVARY  READY
FOR PHYSICAL COMBAT. THE PROBLEM
IS THE ACTUAL TEXT IS THE
OPPOSITE. THE TWEET PROMISE TO
BRING
CALVARY. A SYMBOL OF HER
CHRISTIAN FAITH WITH HER TO THE
PRESIDENT'S SPEECH. A SYMBOL OF
FAITH, LOVE, AND PEACE. THEY DO
NOT WANT TO READ THE TEXT AND
BELIEVE WHAT THE TEXT MEANS. YOU
WILL SEE THIS REPORTED IN THE
MEDIA LAST NIGHT. WORDS MATTER.
BUT THEY SELECTIVELY EDITED THE
PRESIDENTS WORDS OVER AND OVER
AGAIN. THEY MANIPULATED VIDEO
AND MADE IT APPEAR THAT THE
PRESIDENTS WORDS WERE PLAYING TO
A CROWD WHEN THEY WERE NOT.
LET'S TAKE A LOOK.
&gt;&gt; AFTER THIS WE ARE GOING TO
WALK DOWN, I WILL BE THERE WITH
YOU. WERE GOING TO WALK DOWN TO
THE CAPITOL
, AND WE ARE GOING TO CHEER ON
OUR BRAVE SENATORS AND
CONGRESSMEN AND WOMEN. AND THEY
WERE WILL NOT BE CHEERING SO
MUCH FOR SOME OF THEM. YOU WILL
NEVER TAKE BACK OUR
COUNTRY WITH WEAKNESS. YOU HAVE
TO SHOW STRENGTH AND YOU HAVE TO
BE STRONG. WE HAVE COME TO
DEMAND THAT CONGRESS DO THE
RIGHT THING AND ONLY COUNT THE
ELECTORS THAT HAVE BEEN LAWFULLY
SLATED.
I KNOW THAT EVERYONE WILL SOON
BE MARCHING OVER TO THE CAPITAL
BUILDING TO PEACEFULLY AND
PATRIOTICALLY MAKE YOUR VOICES
HEARD.
&gt;&gt; AND WE ARE GOING TO WALK DOWN
TO THE CAPITOL. THEY SHOWED YOU
THAT PART. WHY ARE WE WALKING TO
THE CAPITAL? THEY CUT THAT OFF.
BUT TO CHEER ON MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS OF OTHERS PEACEFULLY
AND PATRIOTICALLY. THE SUPREME
COURT RULED THAT THERE IS A
STANDARD FOR INCITEMENT. WHETHER
IT WAS INTENDED TO PROVOKE ON
LAWLESS
ACTION. GO TO THE CAPITAL AND
CHEER ON SOME MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS BUT NOT OTHERS. THE
DOES NOT MEET THE STANDARD FOR
INCITEMENT SO THEY EDITED IT. WE
HEARD A LOT THIS WEEK ABOUT
FIGHT LIKE HELL.
&gt;&gt; THEY CUT OFF THE VIDEO BEFORE
THEY SHOWED YOU THE PRESENCE
OPTIMISTIC AND PATRIOTIC WORDS
THAT FOLLOWED IMMEDIATELY AFTER.
&gt;&gt; FIGHT LIKE HELL, IF YOU DON'T
FIGHT LIKE HELL YOU WILL NOT
HAVE A COUNTRY ANYMORE. ARE
EXCITING
ADVENTURES AND BOLDEST ENDEAVORS
HAVE NOT YET BEGUN. MY FELLOW
AMERICANS FOR OUR CHILDREN AND
FOR OUR BELOVED COUNTRY. I SAY
THIS DESPITE ALL THAT HAS
HAPPENED. THE BEST IS YET TO
COME.
BUT THERE IS A FAMOUS QUOTE LIKE
ONE OF THE HOUSE MANAGERS SET. A
LIE WILL TRAVEL HALFWAY AROUND
THE WORLD BEFORE THE TRUTH HAS A
CHANCE TO PUT ITS SHOES ON. THIS
LIE TRAVELED AROUND THE WORLD A
FEW TIMES, INTO BITING TALKING
POINTS. THE THE CHARLOTTESVILLE
LIE. FIND PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES.
BUT THAT'S NOT ALL THAT HE SAID.
THEY KNEW IT THEN, AND THEY KNOW
IT NOW. WATCH THIS.
&gt;&gt; YOU ALSO HAD PEOPLE THAT WERE
VERY FINE PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES.
PEOPLE IN THAT GROUP, EXCUSE ME.
I SAW THE SAME PICTURES AS YOU
DID. YOU HAD PEOPLE IN THAT
GROUP THAT WERE THERE TO
PROTEST. TAKING DOWN A VERY
IMPORTANT STATUE AND THE
RENAMING OF A PART FROM ROBERT E
LEE TO ANOTHER NAME. GEORGE
WASHINGTON WAS A SLAVE OWNER
WILL GEORGE WASHINGTON NOW LOSE
HIS STATUS? ARE WE GOING TO TAKE
DOWN STATUES OF GEORGE
WASHINGTON, HOW ABOUT THOMAS
JEFFERSON? WHAT YOU THINK OF
THOMAS JEFFERSON? ARE WE GOING
TO TAKE DOWN HIS STATUES
? DO YOU LIKE HIM? IT'S FINE.
YOU ARE CHANGING HISTORY AND
CULTURE. YOU HAD PEOPLE. I'M NOT
TALKING ABOUT WHITE
THEY SHOULD BE CONDEMNED
TOTALLY. YOU HAD MANY PEOPLE
OTHER THAN WHITE NATIONALISTS
AND
NEO NAZIS. YOU ALSO HAD  FIVE
PEOPLE IN THE OTHER GROUP. JOE
ALSO HAD TROUBLEMAKERS, AND YOU
SEE THEM COME IN THEIR BLACK
OUTFITS AND WITH HELMETS AND
BASEBALL BATS. YOU HAVE A LOT OF
BAD PEOPLE IN THE OTHER GROUP
TOO
&gt;&gt; YOU SAID THAT PRESS HAS
TREATED A WHITE NATIONALISTS
UNFAIRLY.
&gt;&gt; THERE WERE PEOPLE IN THAT
RALLY, IF YOU LOOK, THERE WERE
PEOPLE PROTESTING VERY QUIETLY.
TAKING DOWN THE
STATUE OF ROBERT E LEE. I'M SURE
THERE WAS SOME BAD ONES IN THAT
GROUP THE FOLLOWING DAY IT LOOKS
LIKE THEY HAD SOME ROUGH BAD
PEOPLE.
WHITE NATIONALIST, NEO NAZIS,
WHATEVER YOU WANT TO CALL THEM.
YOU HAD A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT
WERE THERE TO INNOCENTLY
PROTEST AND LEGALLY PROTEST. I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU KNOW, THEY HAD
A PERMIT, THE OTHER GROUP DID
NOT. I ONLY TELL YOU THIS. THERE
ARE TWO SIDES TO EVERY STORY. I
THOUGHT WHAT TOOK PLACE WAS A
HORRIBLE MOMENT FOR OUR COUNTRY.
DOES ANYONE HAVE A FINAL
QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; THIS MAY BE THE FIRST TIME
THAT THE NEWS NETWORKS PLAYED
THE FULL REMARKS IN THE CONTEXT
COMING TIMES HAVE YOU HEARD THAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP HAS NEVER
DENOUNCED WHITE SUPREMACY. NOW
YOU KNOW THE TRUTH. HERE IS
ANOTHER EXAMPLE. ONE OF THE
HOUSE MANAGERS MADE MUCH OF THE
PRESIDENTS OMINOUS WORDS THAT
YOU HAVE TO GET YOUR PEOPLE TO
FIGHT. YOU KNEW WHAT HE MEANT.
HE MEANT THAT THE CROWD SHOULD
DEMAND ACTION FROM CONGRESS AND
SUPPORT PRIMARY CHALLENGES TO
THOSE WHO DO NOT DO WHAT HE
CONSIDERS TO BE RIGHT.
PRIMARY CHALLENGES, NOT VIOLENT
ACTION. I KNOW WHAT HE MEANT
BECAUSE I WATCH THE FULL VIDEO.
AND SO DID THE HOUSE MANAGERS.
THEY MANIPULATED HIS WORDS. YOU
WILL SEE WHERE THEY STOPPED. AND
TO GIVE IT A VERY DIFFERENT
MEANING FROM THAT MEANING IT HAS
IN FULL
CONTEXT. LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE TO GET YOUR PEOPLE
TO FIGHT. HE TOLD THEM.
TO FIGHT. IF THEY DON'T FIGHT WE
HAVE TO PRIMARY THE HELL OF THE
ONES WHO DON'T FIGHT. WE WILL
LET YOU KNOW WHO THEY ARE. I CAN
ALREADY TELL YOU FRANKLY. BUT
THE PEOPLE WHO NEED FIGHT ARE
THE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.
IT COULDN'T OF BEEN THE URGENCY
TO GET PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
OUT OF OFFICE. HOUSE DEMOCRATS
HELD THE ARTICLES UNTIL HE WAS
NO LONGER PRESIDENT.
HATRED ANIMOSITY DIVISION AND
POLITICAL GAIN. AND FOR HOUSE
DEMOCRATS TRUMP SKI IS THE BEST
TO ATTACK
&gt;&gt; I'M TO SAY THIS FOR PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP WHO I WILL BE
VOTING TO IMPEACH.
&gt;&gt; I DON'T RESPECT THIS
PRESIDENT AND I WILL FIGHT EVERY
DAY UNTIL HE IS IMPEACHED
ARE GROUNDS TO START IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS
&gt;&gt; I RISE TO CALL FOR THE
IMPEACHMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
&gt;&gt; I CONTINUE TO SAY IMPEACH
HIM.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE CALLING THE POUND THE
HOUSE TO BEGIN IMPEACHMENT
HEARINGS IMMEDIATELY.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD VOTE YES FOR
IMPEACHMENT.
&gt;&gt; WE'RE GOING GO IN THERE AND
IMPEACH HIM.
&gt;&gt; I INTRODUCED
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT IN JULY
2017.
&gt;&gt; IF WE DON'T IMPEACH THIS
PRESIDENT HE WILL GET
RE-ELECTED.
&gt;&gt; IT IS TIME TO BRING
IMPEACHMENT CHARGES AGAINST HIM.
BUT MY PERSONAL VIEW IS THAT HE
DESERVES IMPEACHMENT.
&gt;&gt; WE CAN IMPEACH HIM EVERY DAY
OF THE WEEK FOR ANYTHING HE
DOES.
&gt;&gt; THAT SAME HATRED AND ANGER
HAS LED HOUSE MANAGERS TO IGNORE
THEIR OWN WORDS AND ACTIONS AND
SET A DANGEROUS DOUBLE STANDARD.
THEY SPOKE ABOUT RHETORIC AND
THE DRUMBEAT OF HEATED LANGUAGE.
I'M SURE EVERYONE WATCHING
EXPECTED. WE NEED TO SHOW YOU
SOME OF THEIR OWN WORDS.
&gt;&gt; I DO NOT KNOW WHY THERE ARE
NOT UPRISINGS ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY? BUT THERE NEEDS TO BE
UNREST.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TO BE READY TO THROW
A PUNCH.
&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP I
THINK YOU NEED TO GO BACK AND
PUNCH HIM IN THE FACE.
&gt;&gt; I FEEL LIKE PUNCHING HIM. BUT
I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE THEM BEHIND
THE GYM IF I WERE IN HIGH
SCHOOL. AND BEAT THE HELL OUT OF
HIM.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP OUT
TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME AN
ACTOR ASSASSINATED A
PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; SHOW ME WHERE PROTESTERS ARE
SUPPOSED TO BE POLITE AND
PEACEFUL.
&gt;&gt; YOU ARE NOT WELCOME.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE THOUGHT AN AWFUL LOT
ABOUT BLOWING UP THE WHITE
HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE GET UP IN THE FACE OF
CONGRESS PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; PEOPLE WILL DO WHAT THEY DO.
&gt;&gt; CAVANAGH, YOU HAVE RELEASED
THE WHIRLWIND AND YOU WILL PAY
THE PRICE. BUT WE'RE GOING GO IN
THERE, THIS IS A WARNING TO YOU
TRUMPETERS. BE CAREFUL AND WALK
LIGHTLY. FOR THOSE OF YOU THAT
ARE SOLDIERS, MAKE THEM PAY.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU HAD TO BE STUCK AND IN
ELEVATOR WITH PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP, VICE PRESIDENT MIKE
PENCE, AND JEFF SESSIONS, WHO
WOULD IT BE?
&gt;&gt; DOES ONE OF US HAVE TO COME
OUT ALIVE?
&gt;&gt; AND THERE'S MORE.
&gt;&gt; I PROMISE TO FIGHT EVERY
SINGLE DAY. I AM A FIGHTER AND I
AM RELENTLESS. I WILL
HELL.
&gt;&gt; WE. OURSELVES UP AND WE FIGHT
BACK. THAT'S WHAT IT'S ALL
ABOUT. WE
STAND UP AND FIGHT BACK. WE DO
NOT BACK DOWN AND COMPROMISED.
NOT TODAY, NOT TOMORROW, NOT
EVER. YOU CAN LIE DOWN, WHIMPER,
POLE
INTO A BALL AND MOVE TO CANADA
OR YOU CAN STAND YOUR GROUND AND
FIGHT BACK. AND THAT IS WHAT IT
IS ABOUT. THE WE DO FIGHT BACK.
WE ARE NOT TURNING THIS COUNTRY
OVER TO WHAT PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP HAS SOLD. PEOPLE ARE UPSET
AND THEY HAVE A RIGHT TO BE
UPSET.
WE CAN WHIMPER, WINE, OR FIGHT
BACK. AND I AM HERE TO FIGHT
BACK. WE WILL NOT FORGET, WE DO
NOT WANT TO FORGET. WE WILL USE
THAT VISION TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
FIGHT HARDER, TOUGHER, AND MORE
PASSIONATELY THAN EVER BEFORE.
WE STILL HAVE A FIGHT ON OUR
HANDS. BY HARD FOR THE CHANGES
THAT AMERICANS ARE DEMANDING.
&gt;&gt; USE EVERY TOOL POSSIBLE TO
FIGHT FOR
&gt;&gt; WE NEED TO FIGHT BACK.
&gt;&gt; PROBLEMS WE CALL THEM OUT AND
WE FIGHT BACK.
&gt;&gt; I AM FIGHTING TO GET
FIGHT. GET IN THIS FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE ALL NEED TO BE IN THE
FIGHT AND STAY IN THE FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE FOUGHT BACK, I AM NOT
AFRAID OF A FIGHT. I AM IN THIS
FIGHT ALL THE WAY.
&gt;&gt; YOU DO NOT GET WHAT YOU DO
NOT FIGHT FOUR.
OUR FIGHT, WE ARE IN THIS FIGHT
FOR OUR LIVES. THIS IS THE FIGHT
OF OUR LIVES.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO MAKE SURE
THAT THIS FIGHT DOES NOT END
TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A FIGHT FOR OUR
LIVES, THE LIVES OF OUR FRIENDS
AND FAMILY MEMBERS AND
NEIGHBORS. IT IS A FIGHT THAT WE
WILL WORK TO MAKE SURE
CONTINUES. IT IS A FIGHT
AND THAT IS WHAT THIS FIGHT IS
FOR.
&gt;&gt; I WILL FIGHT ANYONE WHO ISN'T
DOING THEIR JOB FOR US. AND YOU
ARE RIGHT I APPROVE THIS
MESSAGE.
BUT THERE WILL BE LOTS OF FIGHTS
AHEAD OF US. I'M READY TO STAND
UP AND KEEP FIGHTING. WE NEED TO
FIGHT. WE HAVE A FEW MORE
FIGHTS. WE WILL TAKE THE
PRIVILEGE OF A FEW MORE FIGHTS.
AND WE HAVE THE BIGGEST FIGHT OF
ALL. I WILL NEVER STOP FIGHTING.
I WILL FIGHT LIKE HELL TO FIGHT
BACK AGAINST ANYONE.
&gt;&gt; WE NEED TO SAY LOUD AND CLEAR
THAT WE ARE READY TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt;
BARE KNUCKLES FIGHT. BUT THEY
ARE GOING TO HAVE TO FIGHT BACK
AGAINST PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; THE FIGHT HAS TO BE
CONDUCTED.
&gt;&gt; FIGHT THAT FIGHT. BUT TIME IS
OF THE ESSENCE.
&gt;&gt; I REALLY BELIEVE THAT WE NEED
TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WERE NOT GOING TAKE THIS LINE
DOWN. WE ARE GOING TO CONTINUE
TO FIGHT.
WE ARE GOING TO FIGHT BACK,
WE'RE NOT GOING TAKE THIS LINE
DOWN.
&gt;&gt; WHAT WE HAVE TO DO IS FIGHT
AS HARD AS WE CAN.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TO RISE UP AND FIGHT
BACK
&gt;&gt; WERE GOING FIGHT AND CONTINUE
TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; I'M GOING TO FIGHT LIKE HELL
.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE TO BE FIERCE IN THE
FIGHTING.
&gt;&gt; I WILL FIGHT LIKE MAD
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TO FIGHT LIKE HELL.
&gt;&gt;
GO DOWN BATTLING. I WILL BE DOWN
THERE ON THE FLOOR FIGHTING.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE FIGHTING AS HARD AS WE
CAN.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE FIGHTING BACK.
&gt;&gt; WHAT WE HAVE TO DO IS FIGHT
IN CONGRESS AND FIGHT IN THE
COURTS. FIGHT ONLINE AND FIGHT
AT THE BALLOT BOX.
WE HAVE TO KEEP FIGHTING AND
FOCUS.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE AN IMPORTANT ROLE TO
PLAY IN FIGHTING. AND THIS FIGHT
LIKE SOMETHING BEFORE IT HAS
BEEN A FIGHT. THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO HAVE TO
FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; I WILL ALWAYS FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE MUST ALWAYS FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE.
&gt;&gt; AS BIDEN SAYS CONTINUE THE
FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL TELL THEM ABOUT WHAT
WE DID.
&gt;&gt; IT'S TRULY A FIGHT. I BELIEVE
WE ARE IN A FIGHT,
AND THERE IS A FIGHT IN FRONT OF
US. FIGHT FOR ALL OF THESE
THINGS. AND WE ARE PREPARED TO
FIGHT WE KNOW HOW TO FIGHT. THE
ONGOING FIGHT. WE KNOW HOW TO
FIGHT. WE LIKE A GOOD FIGHT, WE
WERE BORN OUT OF THE FIGHT. THIS
IS WHAT IS OUR FIGHT RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS THE FIGHT, AND THEN
THERE IS THE FIGHT TO DEFEND.
&gt;&gt; OUR MISSION IS TO FIGHT. THAT
IS THE GUIDING PURPOSE OF HOUSE
DEMOCRATS. HE HAS NEVER
FORGOTTEN WHO HE IS FIGHTING
FOR.
'S BUT THEY CONTINUE TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; NEVER GIVE UP THE FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; I AM A CITIZEN FIGHTING.
&gt;&gt;
LEADER WHO FOUGHT FOR
PROGRESSIVE CHANGE. I THOUGHT
FOR PEOPLE MY WHOLE LIFE. AND
I'M PROUD TO BE IN THE FIGHT.
IT'S TIME FOR AMERICA TO GET
BACKUP. AND FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL FIGHT WHEN WE MUST
FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WHAT KIND OF AMERICA ARE WE
FIGHTING FOR?
WE NEED TO FIGHT FOR IN AMERICA.
&gt;&gt; I'M GOING TO WAKE UP EVERY
DAY AND FIGHT HARD.'S BUT WE ARE
GOING TO FIGHT
.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE IN THE FIGHT OF OUR
LIVES.
&gt;&gt; WE NEED TO FIGHT LIKE HELL.
&gt;&gt; TO FIGHT AGAINST THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE IN THIS FIGHT IN A
SERIOUS WAY.
&gt;&gt; GET IN THIS FIGHT. WE WILL
FIGHT IT OUT.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE TAKEN ON THIS FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; AS LEGISLATORS IN THE HALLS
OF CONGRESS OUR JOB IS TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WHO HAS LET US IN THIS FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; EVERY DAY I'M IN THE UNITED
STATES SENATE, AND I WILL FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; ONE OF THE THINGS WE DO
IS FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; MY CONSTITUENTS SEND ME HEAR
EACH AND EVERY DAY TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE NEED TO BE SIDE-BY-SIDE SO
WE CAN SUCCEED. I HOPE THAT YOU
WILL JOIN US IN OUR FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; AS A NEXT GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA
WE WILL SHOW THE OLD GUARD
SOMETHING NEW.
&gt;&gt; WHEN WE FIGHT THE FIGHT, WHEN
WE ARE FIGHTING THIS FIGHT
THE STRENGTH OF WHO WE ARE IS WE
WILL FIGHT.
IT IS A FIGHT. A FIGHT BORN OUT
OF PATRIOTISM. FIGHT ON.
FIGHT ON.
&gt;&gt; I AM HERE TO SAY ONE MORE
TIME IN PUBLIC.
THIS IS NOT A FIGHT THAT I
WANTED TO TAKE ON, BUT THIS IS
THE FIGHT IN FRONT OF US NOW.
&gt;&gt; EVERY SINGLE ONE OF YOU, AND
EVERY ONE OF YOU.
&gt;&gt; YOU DIDN'T DO ANYTHING WRONG.
IT IS A WORD PEOPLE USE. THE
PLEASE STOP THE HYPOCRISY. DID
YOU TONE DOWN THE RHETORIC LAST
SUMMER WHEN ALL OF THIS WAS
HAPPENING? DID YOU CONDEMN THE
RIOTERS OR DID YOU  STAND WITH
HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI
AND SAY PEOPLE ARE GOING TO DO
WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO DO. BUT
THIS IS A MOVEMENT, THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO STOP. EVERYONE BEWARE.
THEY WILL NOT STOP BEFORE
ELECTION DAY AND THEY WILL NOT
STOP AFTER.
&gt;&gt; SHOW ME WHERE IT SAYS THAT
PROTESTS ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
POLITE AND PEACEFUL.
&gt;&gt; I DO NOT KNOW WHY THEY'RE NOT
UPRISINGS ACROSS THE COUNTRY,
MAYBE THERE WILL BE?
&gt;&gt; DESTROYING PROPERTY IS NOT
VIOLENT.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE NOWHERE TO GO.
&gt;&gt; THEY BEAT HIM FOR NO REASON.
BUT THIS WAS A SNAPSHOT OF WHAT
PEOPLE WILL BE WAKING UP TOO.
&gt;&gt; I AM PROUD OF THE PROTESTS.
&gt;&gt; IT LOOKS LIKE A WAR ZONE.
&gt;&gt; IT'S HEARTWARMING TO SEE SO
MANY PEOPLE TURN OUT PEACEFULLY.
'S BUT THEY KEEP DOING IT DAY
AFTER DAY.
BUT THE PATRIOTS WERE
PROTESTERS.
&gt;&gt; I HOPE THAT SOMEBODY BURNS
DOWN THE WHOLE PRECINCT WITH ALL
OF YOU INSIDE.
'S BUT THEY'RE NOT GOING LET UP.
&gt;&gt; YOU CLAIM THAT IT'S WRONG TO
OBJECT TO THE CERTIFICATION OF
ELECTION RESULTS.
&gt;&gt; ATTENDED TWO CONSULTANTS AND
SOME MEMBERS OF THE SUPER WHO
VOICE CONCERNS AND OBJECTED TO
CERTIFICATION. MINIATURE RASKIN,
YOU WERE IN CONGRESS ONLY THREE
DAYS WHEN YOU OBJECTED IN 2017.
IT  IS ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS
YOU DID WHEN YOU GET HERE.
&gt;&gt;-OBJECTION. 10 OF THE 29
ELECTORAL VOTES CAST BY FLORIDA
WERE CAST BY ELECTORS THAT FULLY
CERTIFIED.
&gt;&gt; IS THE CORRECTION IN WRITING?
AND SIGNED ONLY BY THE MEMBER OF
THE THE PURPOSE OF THE DIPS AND
SENATOR?
&gt;&gt; IN THAT CASE, THE
OBJECTION TO THAT."
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, I AM BACK TO
THE CERTIFICATE FROM SIGNATURE
ON THE GROUNDS OF THE ELECTORAL
VOTE.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS NO DEBATE.
&gt;&gt; MAY I OBJECT TO THIS TICKET
FROM THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
BASED ON VIOLATIONS?
&gt;&gt; THERE IS NO DEBATE IN THE
JOINT SESSION.
&gt;&gt; I OBJECT? PEOPLE ARE
HORRIFIED BY THE OVERWHELMING.
&gt;&gt; SECTION 18 OF THE UNITED
STATES CODE
PROHIBITS DEBATE.
&gt;&gt; I OBJECT TO THE COUNTING OF
THE ELECTORAL VOTES OF THE STATE
OF OHIO.
&gt;&gt; EFFECT TO THE CERTIFICATE TO
GOVERNMENT. THE ELECTORS WERE
NOT
LAWFULLY CERTIFIED.
&gt;&gt; TO 15 FROM THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA TO THE MASSIVE
VOTER SUPPRESSION.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS NO DEBATE.
&gt;&gt;-OBJECTION TO THE ELECTORAL
VOTES.
&gt;&gt;
THE EVICTION IS IN WRITING AND I
DON'T CARE THAT IT IS NOT SIGNED
BY A MEMBER OF THE SENATE.
&gt;&gt; I DO NOT WISH TO DEBATE, IT
WAS TO ASK IS THERE ONE UNITED
STATES SENATOR WHO WILL JOIN ME
IN THE SUBJECT?
&gt;&gt; THE OBJECTION IS SIGNED BY A
MEMBER OF THE HOUSE BUT NOT YET
A MEMBER OF THE SENATE.
&gt;&gt; IT IS OVER.
&gt;&gt; WENT HOUSE MANAGERS REALIZED
THE PRESIDENT'S ACTUAL WORDS
COULD NOT HAVE INCITED THE RIOT,
AS YOU ALLEGED IN YOUR ARTICLE
OF IMPEACHMENT, YOU ATTEMPTED TO
PREVENT. HE SAID THAT RAISING
THE ISSUE OF ELECTION SECURITY
AND CASTING DOUBT ON THE
PROPRIETY OF OUR ELECTIONS WAS
DANGEROUS. ONE OF THE HOUSE
MANAGERS TOLD YOU THIS IS NOT
ABOUT THE WORDS MR. TRUMP USED
IN ISOLATION, RATHER IT IS ABOUT
THE BIG LIE.
PLAN THAT THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN. THE HOUSE MANAGERS
TOLD YOU THAT IT WAS THE BIG LIE
THAT INTO THE RIGHT AND THAT THE
BIG LIE WAS PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
CLEAN THAT THE ELECTION WAS NOT
A FAIR ELECTION THAT THE
ELECTION WAS STOLEN. CLAIMING
THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN, YOU
WERE TOLD, ARE WORDS THAT ARE
INSIGHTFUL TO A FOLLOWERS AND
CAUSED PEOPLE TO RESPOND
VIOLENTLY. CLAIMING THE ELECTION
WAS STOLEN OR NOT LEGITIMATE
SOMETHING THAT A CANDIDATE
SHOULD NEVER DO BECAUSE HE OR
SHE KNOWS OR SHOULD KNOW THAT
SUCH A CLAIM AND SUCH WORDS CAN
ACTUALLY INCITE VIOLENT
INSURRECTION, YOU ARE TOLD. IT
SEEMS THE HOUSE MANAGERS
POSITION MUST BE A BIT NARROWER
THAN THAT. THE HOUSE MANAGERS
POSITION REALLY IS THAT WHEN
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES FOR OFFICE
CLAIM AN ELECTION IS STOLEN OR
THAT THE ONE IS LEGITIMATE, IT
CONSTITUTES INCITING
INSURRECTION AND THE CANDIDATE
SHOULD KNOW IT. DEMOCRATIC PARTY
CANDIDATES FOR PUBLIC ELECTIVE
OFFICE ARE PERFECTLY ENTITLED TO
CLAIM THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN OR
THAT A WINNER IS LEGITIMATE OR
TO MAKE ANY OTHER OUTRAGEOUS
CLAIMS HE CAN. IT IS THEIR
ABSOLUTE RIGHT TO DO SO. AND IT
IS THEIR ABSOLUTE RIGHT TO SELL
IRRESPECTIVE OF WHETHER THERE IS
ANY EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT THE
CLAIM. DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES CAN
CLAIM AN ELECTION WAS DONE
BECAUSE OF RUSSIAN COLLUSION OR
THAT WITHOUT ANY EXPIRATION OF
ALL AND THAT IS PERFECTLY OKAY
AND THAT IN ANY WAY INCITEMENT
TO INSURRECTION. SOMEHOW IN
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES PUBLICLY
DECRY AN ELECTION AS A STONE OR
ILLEGITIMATE, IT IS NEVER A BIG
LIE. YOU HAVE BEEN DOING IT FOR
YEARS. CAN YOU IMAGINE TELLING
YOUR SUPPORTERS THAT THE ONLY
WAY YOU COULD POSSIBLY LOSE IS
IF AN AMERICAN ELECTION WAS A
REGULAR AND STOLEN FROM YOU? ASK
YOURSELF WHETHER YOU HAVE EVER
SEEN ANYONE AT ANY LEVEL OF
GOVERNMENT MAKE THE SAME CLAIM
ABOUT THEIR OWN ELECTION?
&gt;&gt; IF STACEY ABRAMS DIDN'T WIN
IN GEORGIA, THEY STOLE IT. IT IS
CLEAR. I SAY THAT PUBLICLY, IT
IS CLEAR.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN RUN THE BEST
CAMPAIGN, YOU CAN EVEN BECOME
THE NOMINEE. YOU CAN EVEN HAVE
THE ELECTION STOLEN FROM YOU.
&gt;&gt; HE KNOWS HE IS AN
ILLEGITIMATE PRESIDENT. HE
KNOWS. HE KNOWS THAT THERE WERE
A BUNCH OF DIFFERENT REASONS WHY
THE ELECTION TURNED OUT THE WAY
IT DID.
&gt;&gt; VOTES REMAIN TO BE COUNTED.
THERE ARE VOICES WAITING TO BE
HEARD.
&gt;&gt; I WILL NOT CONCEDE.
&gt;&gt; RESPECT WITH WORKING, AND I
RESPECT THE ISSUES YOU ARE
RAISING. YOU'RE NOT ANSWERING
THE QUESTION. YOU ARE NOT USING
THE WORD LEGITIMATE.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE STILL LEGITIMATE
CONCERNS OVER THE INTEGRITY OF
OUR ELECTIONS AND ENSURING THE
PRINCIPLE OF ONE PERSON, ONE
VOTE.
&gt;&gt; I AGREE WITH TENS OF MILLIONS
OF AMERICANS WHO ARE VERY
WORRIED THAT ONE DAY CAST A
BALLOT ON AN ELECTRONIC VOTING
MACHINE, THAT THERE IS NO PAPER
TRAIL
TO RECORD THAT FOOD.
&gt;&gt; CONSTANTLY SHIFTING VOTE
TALLIES IN OHIO AND
MALFUNCTIONING ELECTRONIC
MACHINES, WHICH MAY NOT HAVE
PAPER RECEIPTS HAVE LED TO
ADDITIONAL LOSS OF CONFIDENCE BY
THE PUBLIC. THIS IS THEIR ONLY
OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE THIS DEBATE
WHILE THE COUNTRY IS LISTENING.
AND IT IS APPROPRIATE TO DO SO.
&gt;&gt;
HOUSE MANAGER CASTRO NO LONGER
HAD TO TRY TO IMAGINE IT THANKS
TO THE
DISTINGUISHED SENATOR AND
OTHERS. IT DIDN'T HAVE TO BE
THIS WAY. THE DEMOCRATS PROMISED
UNITY. THEY PROMISED TO DELIVER
THE VERY COVID-19 RELIEF IN THE
FORM OF $2000.00 STIMULUS CHECKS
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP CALLED FOR.
THEY SHOULD HAVE LISTENED TO
THEIR OWN WORDS OF THE PAST. I
LEAVE YOU WITH THE WISE WORDS OF
CONGRESSMAN JERRY NADLER.
&gt;&gt; THE EFFECT OF IMPEACHMENT IS
TO
OVERTURN THE POPULAR WILL OF THE
VOTERS. WE MUST NOT OVERTURN AN
ELECTION AND REMOVE A PRESIDENT
FROM OFFICE EXCEPT TO DEFEND OUR
SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT OR OTHER
CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTIES AGAINST
A TIRED THREAT. WE MUST NOT DO
SO WITHOUT AN OVERWHELMING
CONSENSUS OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE. THERE MUST NEVER BE IN A
REALLY WANTED IMPEACHMENT OR
IMPEACHMENT SUPPORTED BY ONE OF
OUR MAJOR POLITICAL PARTIES AND
OPPOSED BY THE OTHER. SUCH
IMPEACHMENT WILL PRODUCE THE
DIVISIVENESS AND BITTERNESS IN
OUR POLITICS FOR YEARS TO COME
AND WILL CALL INTO QUESTION THE
VERY LEGITIMACY OF OUR POLITICAL
INSTITUTIONS. THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE HAVE HEARD THE
ALLEGATIONS AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT AND THE OVERWHELMINGLY
OPPOSED IMPEACHING HIM. THEY
ELECTED PRESIDENT CLINTON, THEY
STILL SUPPORT HIM, WE HAVE NO
RIGHT TO OVERTURN THE CONSIDERED
JUDGMENT OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
MR. SPEAKER, THE CASE AGAINST
THE
PRESIDENT HAS NOT BEEN MADE.
THERE IS FAR FROM SUFFICIENT
EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT THE
ALLEGATIONS AND ALLEGATIONS,
EVEN IF PROVEN TRUE, DO NOT RISE
TO THE LEVEL OF IMPEACHABLE
OFFENSES. MR. SPEAKER, THIS IS
CLEARLY A
ARTISAN RAILROAD JOB. THE SAME
PEOPLE WHO DID THEY TELL US WE
MUST IMPEACH THE PRESIDENT FOR
LYING UNDER OATH ALMOST TO A
PERSON FOR HIS PLEASURE TO
REELECT THE SPEAKER, WHO HAD
JUST ADMITTED LYING TO CONGRESS
IN AN OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE WATCHING AND
THEY WILL NOT FORGET. YOU MAY
HAVE THE VOTES, YOU MAY HAVE THE
MUSCLE, BUT YOU DO NOT HAVE THE
LEGITIMACY OF A
NATIONAL CONSENSUS OR A
CONSTITUTIONAL IMPERATIVE. THIS
PERSON COULD TALK WILL GO DOWN
IN INFAMY IN THE HISTORY OF THIS
NATION. THANK YOU MR. SPEAKER, I
YIELD BACK THE BALANCE OF MY
TIME.
&gt;&gt; GOOD AFTERNOON AGAIN,
SENATORS. MR. PRESIDENT.
ARE TWO FUNDAMENTAL QUESTIONS
FOR PURPOSES OF THIS FREE SPEECH
ANALYSIS. FIRST, DOES THE FIRST
AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION
APPLY IN THIS CHAMBER TO THESE
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS? SECOND,
IF IT DOES, DO THE WORDS SPOKEN
BY MR. TRUMP AT THEIR LIPS ON
JANUARY 6th MEET THE DEFINITION
OF CONSTITUTIONAL INCITEMENT SO
AS TO VOID THE PROTECTIONS
AFFORDED BY THE FIRST AMENDMENT?
I WILL EXPLAIN WHY THE ANSWERS
TO BOTH OF THESE QUESTIONS MUST
BE A RESOUNDING YES.
THE CONSTITUTION AND THE FIRST
AMENDMENT MUST CERTAINLY APPLY
TO THESE IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS
AND MR. TRUMP'S SPEECH DESERVES
FULL PROTECTION UNDER THE
AMENDMENT.
BEFORE GETTING INTO THE LEGAL
ANALYSIS ON PRELIMINARY
OBSERVATIONS ABOUT THE HOUSE
MANAGERS CASE, SHOULD BE MADE.
FIRST, THIS CASE UNFORTUNATELY
IS ABOUT POLITICAL HATRED. IT
HAS BECOME VERY CLEAR THAT THE
HOUSE DEMOCRATS
HATE DONALD TRUMP. THIS TYPE OF
POLITICAL HATRED HAS NO PLACE IN
OUR LOCAL INSTITUTIONS AND
CERTAINLY NO PLACE IN THE LAW.
THIS HATRED HAS LED TO THE HOUSE
MANAGERS TO MANIPULATE AND
SELECTIVELY EDIT MR. TRUMP'S
SPEECH TO MAKE IT FALSELY APPEAR
THAT HE SOUGHT TO INCITE THE
CROWD TO VIOLENTLY ATTACK THE
CAPITOL. HE DIDN'T. WE WILL SHOW
YOU WHY.
THE HATRED HAS ALSO LED THE
HOUSE MANAGERS TO MAKE SOME
ASTOUNDING LEGAL ARGUMENTS. THE
ASTOUNDINGLY URGE YOU TO
DISREGARD YOUR OATH BY IGNORING
THE FIRST AMENDMENT OF THE
CONSTITUTION. THEY ALSO IGNORE
LANDMARK BINDING UNITED STATES
SUPREME COURT CASES, PRECEDENT.
BOTH OF WHICH HOLD THAT
UNEQUIVOCALLY
ELECTED OFFICIALS OF COURSE
FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS TO ENGAGE
IN THE EXACT TYPE OF POLITICAL
SPEECH WHICH MR. TRUMP'S ENGAGED
IN. I WAS SHOCKED THE HOUSE
MANAGERS NOT ONLY SPENT A MERE
THREE PAGES ON THE FIRST
AMENDMENT ANALYSIS AND THEIR
TRIAL MAN BUT YESTERDAY, THEY
SPENT A MERE 10 MINUTES AT THE
END OF THEIR CASE AS A THROW
AWAY. WHAT WE HAVE READ AND WHAT
WE HAVE HEARD IS DEVOID OF ANY
CONSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS. FOR
LESS THAN I WOULD EXPECT FROM A
FIRST YEAR LAW STUDENT.
THEY LEFT OUT LANDMARK CASES,
TOTAL INTELLECTUAL DISHONESTY.
FINALLY, HATRED IS AT THE HEART
OF THE
HOUSE MANAGERS FRIVOLOUS
ATTEMPTS TO BLAME DONALD TRUMP
FOR THE CRIMINAL ACTS OF THE
RIOTERS BASED ON DOUBLE HEARSAY
STATEMENTS OF FRINGE RIGHT-WING
GROUPS, BASED ON NO REAL
EVIDENCE OTHER THAN RANK
SPECULATION.
HATRED IS A DANGEROUS THING. WE
ALL HAVE TO WORK TO OVERCOME IT.
HATRED SHOULD HAVE NO PLACE IN
THIS CHAMBER, IN THESE
PROCEEDINGS.
THE SECOND OBSERVATION. THE
SENATE IS PRESENTED WITH
EXTRAORDINARY TASKS SITTING IN
JUDGMENT OF A FORMER PRESIDENT
WORDS
IN A SPEECH THAT HE GAVE AT A
POLITICAL EVENT. THE HOUSE
MANAGERS ACCUSE MR. TRUMP OF
USING HIS WORDS TO INSIGHT THE
HORRIFIC EVENTS AT THE CAPITOL
ON JANUARY 6th. YESTERDAY THEY
GIVE YOU A NEW AND NOVEL
STANDARD OF INCITEMENT
WITH AN ELEMENT OF
FORESEEABILITY, A NEGLIGENCE
CONCEPT. THEY CITE ZERO CASE LAW
. THEY MADE IT UP.
THIS TASK OF APPLYING A
COMPLETELY MADE-UP LEGAL
STANDARD OF INCITEMENT TO
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDING IS TRULY
AN UNPRECEDENTED TASK FOR THE
SENATE
. THAT IS SOMETHING THE SENATE
MUST SERIOUSLY CONSIDER WHEN
DECIDING THE ISSUE.
DO YOU WANT TO CREATE A
PRECEDENT WHERE THE SENATE WILL
BE TASKED WITH SITTING IN
JUDGMENT AS TO THE MEANING AND
IMPLIED INTENT OF A PRESIDENT'S
WORDS? OR WORDS OF ANY ELECTED
OFFICIAL?
WILL THAT ALLOW AND MAYBE INTO
IT A MAJORITY PARTY TO WEAPON
EYES THE AWESOME POWER OF
IMPEACHMENT AGAINST THE MINORITY
TO SUPPRESS A POINT OF VIEW?
WILL THE SENATE THEN HAVE TO
DEAL WITH CONSTANT ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT BY A MAJORITY PARTY,
ACCUSING MINORITY PRESIDENTS OR
OTHER ELECTED OFFICIALS OF
SO-CALLED INSIGHTFUL OR FALSE
SPEECHES? YOU CAN SEE WHERE THIS
WOULD LEAD. SADLY, WE HAVE ALL
SEEN THE
POLITICAL RHETORIC FOR THE PAST
FEW YEARS. WE HAVE ALL BEEN
WITNESSES TO MANY INCENDIARY
WORDS BY OUR OFFICIALS AT
POLITICAL EVENTS BROADCAST OVER
THE MEDIA INTERNET AND EACH OF
THOSE INCIDENCES, WILL THERE NOW
BE SENATE IMPEACHMENT HEARINGS?
ONE LAST OBSERVATION. WE AGREE
WITH THE HOUSE MANAGERS, CONTEXT
DOES INDEED MATTER. THE
INFLAMMATORY LETTER FROM OUR
ELECTED OFFICIALS MUST BE PART
OF THE LARGER CONTEXT OF MR.
TRUMP'S SPEECH AT THEIR LIPS ON
JANUARY 6th
THE INFLAMMATORY LANGUAGE FROM
BOTH SIDES OF THE AISLE HAS BEEN
ALARMING, FRANKLY. THIS
POLITICAL DISCOURSE MUST BE
CONSIDERED AS PART OF THESE
PROCEEDINGS TO CONCEPTUALIZE MR.
TRUMP'S WORDS. WE HAVE SOME
VIDEO TO PLAY THAT HIGHLIGHTS
SOME OF WHAT I AM TALKING ABOUT.
I PREFACE
THIS VIDEO BY NOTING I AM NOT
SHOWING YOU THIS VIDEO AS SOME
EXCUSE FOR MR. TRUMP'S SPEECH.
THIS IS NOT ABOUT, THIS IS NOT
WHAT ABOUT IN SOME. I AM SHOWING
YOU THIS TO MAKE THE POINT THAT
ALL POLITICAL SPEECH MUST BE
PROTECTED.
&gt;&gt;
I JUST DON'T EVEN KNOW WHY THERE
AREN'T UPRISINGS ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY AND MAYBE THERE WILL BE.
&gt;&gt; THAT NEEDS TO BE UNREST IN
THE STREETS AS LONG AS THERE IS
UNREST IN OUR LIVES.
&gt;&gt; DONALD TRUMP, YOU NEED TO GO
BACK AND PUNCH HIM IN THE FACE.
&gt;&gt; I THOUGHT HE SHOULD HAVE
PUNCHED HIM IN THE FACE.
&gt;&gt; FEEL LIKE PUNCHING HIM.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE IN
BEHIND THE GYM IF I WERE IN HIGH
SCHOOL. I WISH WE WERE IN HIGH
SCHOOL I COULD TAKE IN BEHIND
AGENT.
&gt;&gt; I WILL GO AND TAKE TRUMP'S
OUT TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; TAKEN OUT NOW.
&gt;&gt; ONE WAS THE LAST TIME AN
ACTOR ASSASSINATED A PRESIDENT?
&gt;&gt; SHOW ME WHERE IT SAYS THAT
PROTESTS ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
POLITE AND PEACEFUL?
&gt;&gt; I HAVE THAT AN AWFUL LOT
ABOUT BLOWING UP THE WHITE
HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE GET UP IN THE FACE OF
SOME CONGRESSPEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; PEOPLE WILL DO WHAT THEY DO.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO TELL YOU, CAVANAGH,
YOU HAVE RELEASED THE WHIRLWIND
AND YOU WILL PAY THE PRICE.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS JUST A WARNING TO YOU
TRUMPERS. BE CAREFUL, WALK
LIGHTLY. FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO
ARE SOLDIERS, MAKE THEM PAY.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU HAD TO BE STUCK AT A
LATER WITH EITHER PRESIDENT
TRUMP, MIKE PENCE, OR JEFF
SESSIONS, WHO WOULD IT BE?
&gt;&gt; DOES ONE OF US HAVE TO COME
OUT ALIVE ?
&gt;&gt; AGAIN. I DID NOT SHOW YOU
THERE
ROBUST SPEECH TO EXCUSE OR
BALANCE OUT THE SPEECH OF MY
CLIENT, FOR I NEED NOT. I SHOWED
YOU THE VIDEO BECAUSE IN THIS
POLITICAL FORUM, ALL ROBUST
SPEECH SHOULD BE PROTECTED AND
IT SHOULD BE PROTECTED EVENLY
FOR ALL OF US.
AS A BRIEF ASIDE, WE SHOULD ALL
REFLECT AND ACKNOWLEDGE THE
RHETORIC HAS GOTTEN TO BE TOO
MUCH AND OVER THE TOP.
IT IS GREETING ON THE COLLECTIVE
WELL-BEING OF THE BODY PUBLIC,
THE CITIZENS. MOST WOULD LIKE IT
TO STOP. THE POINT IS, WHEN YOU
SEE SPEECH SUCH AS THIS, YOU
HAVE TO APPLY THE FIRST
AMENDMENT EVENLY, BLINDLY. SHE
IS BLIND, LADY JUSTICE.
QUESTION ONE. DOES THE FIRST
AMENDMENT APPLY TO THIS CHAMBER
IN THESE PROCEEDINGS? THE HOUSE
MANAGERS POSITION, AS STATED IN
THEIR TRIAL BRIEF, IS, AND I
QUOTE, "THE FIRST AMENDMENT DOES
NOT APPLY AT ALL TO AN
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDING
." THAT IS THEIR POSITION. THIS
IS PLAINLY WRONG.
THE TEXT OF THE FIRST AMENDMENT
EXPRESSLY RESTRICTS CONGRESS
FROM REGULATING SPEECH. IT
SOUNDS CONGRESS SHALL MAKE NO
LAW RESPECTING AN ESTABLISHMENT
OF RELIGION OR PROHIBITING THE
FREE EXERCISE THEREOF OR
ABRIDGING THE FREEDOM OF SPEECH
OR OF THE PRESS OR THE RIGHT OF
THE PEOPLE PEACEABLY TO ASSEMBLE
AND TO PETITION THE GOVERNMENT
FOR A REDRESS OF GRIEVANCES. TO
IGNORE THE CONSTITUTION WOULD BE
CONTRARY TO THE OATH OF OFFICE
OF A UNITED STATES SENATOR. I DO
SOLEMNLY SWEAR OR AFFIRM THAT I
WILL SUPPORT AND DEFEND THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES AGAINST ALL ENEMIES
FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC, THAT I
WILL BEAR TRUE FAITH AND
ALLEGIANCE TO THE SAME. YOU ALL
KNOW THE REST. THE SENATE CANNOT
IGNORE THE FIRST AMENDMENT
CONSTITUTION ITSELF LIMITS THE
ABILITY OF THE HOUSE TO IMPEACH
SUCH AS HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS. THE POSITION OF
THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS IS AN
UNLIMITED IMPEACHMENT STANDARD
WITHOUT CONSTITUTIONAL
GUARDRAILS, ON BOARD TO THE
SPECIFIC LEGAL TEST OTHER THAN
THE UNBRIDLED DISCRETION OF
CONGRESS. THIS IS DISTINCTLY NOT
THE INTENT OF THE FRAMERS.
FRAMERS WERE
AWARE OF THE DANGER OF ANY
IMPEACHMENT PROCESS THAT WOULD
MAKE THE PRESIDENT THE MERE
CREATURE OF THE LEGISLATURE, A
QUOTE DIRECTLY FROM THE FRAMERS,
WHILE DEBATING THE IMPEACHMENT
PROCESS ON THE FLOOR OF THE
CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION OF
1787. THE FRAMERS WERE FEARFUL
THAT ANY IMPEACHMENT PROCESS
GAVE CONGRESS FULL DISCRETION ON
THE STANDARD FOR IMPEACHMENT
WOULD CONSTITUTE NOTHING LESS
THEN A VIOLATION OF THE
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OF GOOD
GOVERNMENT. ONE
FOUNDING FATHER, JAMES WILSON,
WROTE EXTENSIVELY ON THE
IMPEACHMENT PROCESS. MR. WILSON
WAS A RENOWNED LEGAL SCHOLAR AT
THE TIME. A LAW PROFESSOR AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA IN
PHILADELPHIA. HE WAS A MAJOR
FORCE IN DRAFTING AND ADOPTING
THE CONSTITUTION IN 1787. HE
SERVED AS ONE OF THE FIRST SIX
SUPREME COURT JUSTICES
, 1789 TO 1798. HE WAS APPOINTED
BY PRESIDENT GEORGE WASHINGTON.
IN FACT, WILSON TAUGHT THE FIRST
TO PRESIDENT WASHINGTON AND HIS
CABINET. THE FIRST IN THE
NATION'S HISTORY. IN
PHILADELPHIA AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF PENNSYLVANIA IN 1789.
WILSON, IN HIS LECTURES, THE
FIRST OF THEIR KIND UNDER THE
CONSTITUTION, PLAINLY STATES
THAT THE SENATE MAY NOT IGNORE
THE CONSTITUTION IN IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS. HE STATES THAT
LAWFUL AND CONSTITUTIONAL
CONDUCT MAY NOT BE USED AS AN
IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE. HE STATES
THAT LAWFUL AND CONSTITUTIONAL
CONDUCT MAY NOT BE USED AS AN
IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE
WITH ME.
THE DOCTRINE OF IMPEACHMENT IS
OF HIGH IMPORT IN THE
CONSTITUTIONS OF FREE STATES. ON
ONE HAND, THE MOST POWERFUL
MAGISTRATE SHOULD BE AMENABLE TO
THE LAW. ON THE OTHER HAND
, ELEVATED CHARACTERS SHOULD NOT
BE SACRIFICED MAINLY ON ACCOUNT
OF THEIR ELEVATION. NO ONE
SHOULD BE
SECURE WELL HE VIOLATES THE
CONSTITUTION AND THE LAWS.
EVERYONE SHOULD BE SECURE WELL
HE OBSERVES THEM. TO BE CLEAR,
JAMES WILSON IS SAYING THAT THE
CONSTITUTION DOES INDEED APPLY
WHEN JUDGING WHETHER TO CONVICT
AN OFFICIAL BY IMPEACHMENT. IF
THE COMPLAINED OF CONDUCT IS
CONSTITUTIONAL, IT CANNOT BE
IMPEACHABLE.
ARE WE TO IGNORE THE WORDS AND
TEACHINGS OF JAMES WILSON? THE
HOUSE MANAGERS SURELY WANT YOU
TO. THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE MADE
SEVERAL REFERENCES TO THIS
LETTER. IT WAS SIGNED BY 140
PARTISAN LAW PROFESSORS: MR.
TRUMP'S FIRST AMENDMENT DEFENSE
LEGALLY FRIVOLOUS. THIS IS
REALLY AN OUTRAGEOUS ATTEMPT TO
INTIMIDATE MR. TRUMP'S LAWYERS.
TRULY FRIVOLOUS
ARGUMENT, THEY MAY VIOLATE
PROFESSIONAL, ETHICAL RULES AND
COULD BE SUBJECT TO DISCIPLINE.
THIS LETTER IS A DIRECT THREAT
TO MY LAW LICENSE, MY CAREER,
AND MY FAMILY'S FINANCIAL
WELL-BEING.
THESE LAW PROFESSORS SHOULD BE
ASHAMED OF THEMSELVES AND SO
SHOULD THE HOUSE MANAGERS. HOW
DO YOU? DO YOU REALLY HATE
DONALD TRUMP SO MUCH THAT YOU
ARE WILLING TO DESTROY GOOD,
HARD-WORKING PEOPLE'S LIVES
, PEOPLE THAT ARE ONLY DOING
THEIR JOBS AND FRANKLY, AS
COUNSEL FOR AN ACCUSED,
FULFILLING A CONSTITUTIONAL
ROLE? IT IS ASTOUNDING, REALLY.
I AM A CITIZEN, NOT A
POLITICIAN. I KNOW THESE FIRST
AMENDMENT ARGUMENTS ARE NOT
ANYWHERE CLOSE TO FRIVOLOUS THEY
ARE COMPLETELY MERITORIOUS.
INTERESTINGLY, THE LAW
PROFESSORS LETTER WAS ISSUED ON
FEBRUARY 5th, THREE DAYS BEFORE
WE EVEN FILED OUR LEGAL BRIEF IN
THIS MATTER AND THEY IGNORED
LANDMARK BEDROCK SUPREME
CASES DIRECTLY ADDRESSING THIS
ISSUE.
IN OUR BRIEF, WE HAVE I DIRECT
QUOTE FROM JAMES WILSON, THE
FOUNDING FATHER, SUPPORTING OUR
POSITION. THE DIRECT QUOTE WAS
COMMITTED IN THE FOUNDING
FATHERS ORIGINAL LEGAL PAPERS.
HE WAS A PRIMARY DRAFTSMAN OF
THE CONSTITUTION AND THE NEW
CONSTITUTION TO PRESIDENT
WASHINGTON. HE SAID
AS LONG AS ACTS OF ELECTED
OFFICIALS LIKE MR. TRUMP ARE
CONSTITUTIONALLY PROTECTED, HE
SHOULD NOT BE IMPEACHED. WE HAVE
LANDMARK U.S. SUPREME COURT
DECISIONS. WOULD IT BONDS, WHICH
I WILL EXPLAIN IN DETAIL,
SUPPORTING OUR POSITION. ALL
OF THIS THE HOUSE MANAGERS AND
PARTISAN LAW PROFESSORS
COMPLETELY AND MISLEADINGLY
IGNORED. FRIVOLOUS? HARDLY. THE
LETTER IS A BULLY TACTIC AND I
THINK EVIDENCES THE HOUSE
MANAGERS KNOW THEY HAVE A
PROBLEM WITH A FIRST AMENDMENT
DEFENSE ON THE MERITS SO THEY
ARE RESORTING TO SUCH TACTICS.
THE HOUSE MANAGERS SUGGESTION
THAT THE FIRST AMENDMENT DOES
NOT APPLY TO THIS IMPEACHMENT
PROCESS IS COMPLETELY UNTENABLE
. IGNORING THE FIRST AMENDMENT
WOULD CONFLICT WITH THE SENATORS
OATH OF OFFICE. IT WOULD ALSO
CONFLICT WITH WELL-SETTLED
SUPREME COURT PRECEDENT AND
WHERE THE INTENT OF THE FRAMERS
OF THE CONSTITUTION, SUCH AS
JAMES WILSON DID ABOVE ALL ELSE,
IGNORING THE THE CONSTITUTION
WOULD ADOPT A NEW RASKIN COMMON
SENSE  DOCTRINE WE HEARD
YESTERDAY, ERODING HUNDREDS OF
YEARS OF FIRST AMENDMENT
PROTECTIONS.
WE ARE HERE UNDER THE
CONSTITUTION. IT IS ILLOGICAL
WITH THE HOUSE MANAGERS SAY. THE
CONSTITUTION DOES APPLY TO THIS
CONSTITUTIONAL IMPEACHMENT
PROCESS. IT IS DOUBLE TALK.
IF THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAD THEIR
WAY, THEY WOULD IGNORE ALL OF
THE CONSTITUTION. DOES THAT
INCLUDE THE SIXTH AMENDMENT? THE
RIGHT TO COUNSEL? THEY WOULD
HAVE MR. TRUMP ARE SITTING HERE
WITHOUT LAWYERS. WHO WOULD BE
NEXT? IT COULD BE ANYONE. ONE OF
YOU OR ONE OF YOU. YOU MUST
REJECT THIS INVITATION TO
THE FIRST AMENDMENT. IT IS
ANTI-AMERICAN AND WOULD SET A
DANGEROUS PRECEDENT FOREVER. THE
LAW IS
TO CLEARLY ESTABLISH ELECTED
OFFICIALS HAVE THE RIGHT TO
ENGAGE IN PROTECTED SPEECH AND
MR. TRUMP IS NOT JUST A GUY ON
THE STREET OR A GUY AT A BAR OR
A FIRE CHIEF OR A POLICE OFFICER
. THERE WERE A FEW OF THEM IN
THERE. ALL ANALOGIES GIVEN BY
THE HOUSE MANAGERS. THESE
SIDEWAYS ANALOGIES ARE WRONG.
MR. TRUMP WAS AN ELECTED
OFFICIAL AND THERE IS AN ENTIRE
BODY OF LAW AND THE SUPREME
COURT LANDMARK CASES SUPPORTING
THE CONCLUSION THAT MR. TRUMP
ACTUALLY HAS ENHANCED
FREE-SPEECH RIGHTS BECAUSE HE IS
AN ELECTED OFFICIAL. THESE CASES
ARE IGNORED BY THE HOUSE
MANAGERS AND THE LAW PROFESSORS.
THAT TOO IS TOTAL INTELLECTUAL
DISHONESTY.
THE SUPREME COURT HAS LONG HELD
THAT THE FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHT
TO FREEDOM OF SPEECH PROTECTS
ELECTED OFFICIALS. TWO IMPORTANT
ON POINT
DECISIONS FOR THE SUPREME COURT,
WOOD VERSUS GEORGIA AND A BOND
VERSUS A FULL WEIGHT ESPECIALLY
CONTRADICT THE HOUSE MANAGERS
POSITION. THE HOUSE MANAGERS DO
NOT EVEN CITE THOSE CASES IN
THEIR BRIEF. THEY BARELY
ACKNOWLEDGE THEM IN THEIR REPLY
AND THEY WERE
ON THEM YESTERDAY. IN WOOD
VERSUS GEORGIA, THE SUPREME
COURT ADDRESSED A CASE INVOLVING
A SITTING SHERIFF, WHOSE
REELECTION WAS BEING
INVESTIGATED  BY A GRAND JURY
INDEPENDENCE BY A JUDGE BASED ON
ALLEGATIONS OF IRREGULAR "NEGRO
BLOCK VOTING ."
THE SERVICE QUOTED IN THE PRESS
RELEASE: THE ALLEGATIONS
RACIST, ILLEGITIMATE AND AN
ATTEMPT TO INTIMIDATE VOTERS. HE
EVEN URGED THE GRAND JURORS ON
HOW TO DECIDE THE ISSUES AND NOT
LET ITS HIGH OFFICE BE A PARTY
TO ANY POLITICAL ATTEMPT TO
INTIMIDATE VOTERS. THE SHERIFF
VIEWED THE GRAND JURY AS
CHALLENGING THE LEGITIMACY OF
HIS ELECTION. THE SHERIFF EVEN
SENT A LETTER TO THE GRAND
JURORS WITH THESE ALLEGATIONS,
WHICH IS AN EXTRAORDINARY STEP
SINCE LAWS IN MOST STATES,
INCLUDING GEORGIA, PROHIBIT
ATTEMPTS TO INFLUENCE OR
INTIMIDATE JURORS. THE SHERIFF
WAS CHARGED AND CONVICTED OF
CONTEMPT OF COURT AND
OBSTRUCTION OF THE GRAND JURY.
BUT THE SUPREME COURT, IN A
DECISION WRITTEN BY JUSTICE
BRENNAN REVERSED. THE COURT HELD
THAT THE FIRST AMENDMENT
PROTECTED AND ELECTED PUBLIC
OFFICIALS SPEECH BECAUSE THE
VOTING CONTROVERSY DIRECTLY
AFFECTED THE SHERIFF'S POLITICAL
CAREER.
THE PETITIONER WAS AN ELECTED
OFFICIAL. READ WITH ME PLEASE,
EVERYBODY. THE PETITIONER WAS AN
ELECTED OFFICIAL AND HAD THE
RIGHT TO ENTER THE FIELD OF
POLITICAL CONTROVERSY,
PARTICULARLY WHERE HIS POLITICAL
LIFE WAS AT STAKE. THE ROLE THAT
ELECTED OFFICIALS PLAY IN OUR
SOCIETY MAKES IT ALL THE MORE
IMPERATIVE THAT THEY BE ALLOWED
FREELY TO EXPRESS THEMSELVES ON
MATTERS OF CURRENT PUBLIC
IMPORTANCE.
WOOD, THIS STANDS FOR THE
POSITION THAT A DIFFERENCE OF
POLITICAL OPINION EXPRESSED IN A
SPEECH ON AN ISSUE OF VOTING
IRREGULARITY CANNOT BE
PUNISHABLE WHERE ALL THAT WAS
DONE WAS TO ENCOURAGE
INVESTIGATION AND PEACEFUL
POLITICAL SPEECH. JUST LIKE MR.
TRUMP HAS DONE HERE. THE LEGAL
SCHOLARS CALL THAT DIRECTLY ON
POINT.
A SECOND CASE, BOND VERSUS FLUID
INVOLVES A STATE LEGISLATURE
PUNISHING AN ELECTED OFFICIAL
FOR PROTECTED POLITICAL SPEECH.
BOND IS PARTICULARLY INSTRUCTIVE
HERE TOO.
AND BOND, THE SUPREME COURT
SQUARELY ADDRESSED THE QUESTION
OF AN ELECTED OFFICIALS
PUNISHMENT BY A LEGISLATURE FOR
STATEMENTS ALLEGED TO HAVE
INCITED PUBLIC VIOLATION OF THE
LAW, THE BURDEN OF DRAFT CARDS.
THE QUOTE COURT
UNEQUIVOCALLY REJECTED THE IDEA
ADVANCED HERE BY THE HOUSE
MANAGERS THAT AN ELECTED
OFFICIAL IS ENTITLED TO NO
PROTECTION UNDER THE FIRST
AMENDMENT. THE SUPREME COURT
HELD THAT THE GEORGIA HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES WAS IN FACT
FORBIDDEN BY THE FIRST AMENDMENT
FROM PUNISHING BOND BY NOT
CEDING HIM FOR ADVOCATING
AGAINST THE POLICY OF THE UNITED
STATES. THERE ARE THREE
FUNDAMENTAL HOLDINGS IN BOND.
ONE, THE MANIFEST FUNCTIONS OF
THE FIRST AMENDMENT IN A
REPRESENTATIVE GOVERNMENT
REQUIRES LEGISLATORS
BE GIVEN THE WIDEST LATITUDE TO
EXPRESS THEIR VIEWS ON ISSUES OF
POLICY. TWO, JUST AS ERRONEOUS
STATEMENTS MUST BE PROTECTED TO
GIVE FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION
, THE BREATHING SPACE IT NEEDS
TO SURVIVE, SO STATEMENTS
CRITICIZING PUBLIC POLICY AND
THE IMPLEMENTATION OF IT MUST BE
SIMILARLY PROTECTED. THIRD
HOLDING. LEGISLATORS HAVE AN
OBLIGATION TO TAKE DECISIONS ON
ARTIFICIAL ETHICAL QUESTIONS
THAT THEIR CONSTITUENTS CAN BE
FULLY INFORMED BY THEM
AND BE BETTER ABLE TO ASSESS
THEIR QUALIFICATIONS. PLEASE,
READ ALONG WITH ME. THEIR
QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE. ALSO,
SO THEY MAY BE PRESENTED IN
GOVERNMENTAL DEBATES BY THE
PERSON THEY HAVE ELECTED TO
REPRESENT THEM.
" MR. TRUMP ENJOYS THIS SAME
FIRST AMENDMENT PROTECTION FROM
CONGRESS. THE FIRST AMENDMENT
PROTECTIONS GUARANTEED FREE
SPEECH, ADDRESSING THE ELECTORAL
INTEGRITY ISSUES ESSENTIAL TO
HIS CAREER THAT MR. TRUMP HAS
CONSISTENTLY ADVOCATED. THE
HOUSE MANAGERS ARGUE THAT THE
FIRST AMENDMENT, AND I QUOTE,
"DOES NOT SHIELD PUBLIC
OFFICIALS WHO OCCUPY SENSITIVE
POLICYMAKING POSITIONS FROM
ADVERSE ACTIONS WHEN THEIR
SPEECH UNDERMINES IMPORTANT FOR
MENTAL INTEREST." THAT IS FLAT
WRONG. THEY ARE IN ESSENCE
ATTEMPTING TO TREAT MR. TRUMP AS
THEIR EMPLOYEE. THIS IS NOT THE
LAW UNDERWOOD AND BOND.
MR. TRUMP WAS ELECTED BY THE
PEOPLE. HE IS AN ELECTED
OFFICIAL. THE SUPREME COURT SAYS
ELECTED OFFICIALS MUST HAVE THE
RIGHT TO FREELY ENGAGE IN PUBLIC
SPEECH.
INDEED, THE SUPREME COURT
EXPRESSLY REJECTED THE HOUSE
MANAGERS ARGUMENT IN WOOD VERSUS
GEORGIA, HOLDING THAT THE
SHERIFF WAS NOT A CIVIL SERVANT
BUT AN ELECTED OFFICIAL WHO HAD
CORE FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS,
WHICH COULD NOT BE RESTRICTED.
THAT IS
WOOD V. GEORGIA PAGE 95
, FOOTNOTE 21. THE HOUSE
MANAGERS DO NOT MENTION WOOD OR
BOND.
IN THE TRIAL BEFORE ANYWHERE
ELSE. WHY? WHY NOT? IT DOES NOT
FIT THEIR NARRATIVE OR THEIR
STORY. THEY WANT TO PUNISH MR.
TRUMP FOR ENGAGING IN
CONSTITUTIONALLY PROTECTED FREE
SPEECH AND THEY DO NOT WANT YOU
TO CONSIDER THE ISSUE
, BUT YOU MUST. QUESTION TWO.
DOES MR. TRUMP'S SPEECH DESERVES
PROTECTION UNDER THE FIRST
AMENDMENT?
THERE IS NO DOUBT MR. TRUMP
ENGAGED IN CONSTITUTIONALLY
PROTECTED SPEECH THAT THE HOUSE
IS IMPROPERLY
CHARACTERIZED AS INCITEMENT OF
INSURRECTION. THE FATAL FLAW OF
THE HOUSES ARGUMENT IS THAT IT
SEEKS TO MEET OUT GOVERNMENTAL
PUNISHMENT IMPEACHMENT, BASED ON
FIRST AMENDMENT POLITICAL SPEECH
. SPEECH FOR POLITICAL PURPOSES
IS
THE FIRST AMENDMENT OFFERS ITS
STRONGEST PROTECTION
. THESE ARE BEDROCK PRINCIPLES
RECOGNIZED BY OUR SUPREME COURT
FOR DECADES.
THE COURT HAS STATED IN NO
UNCERTAIN TERMS THE IMPORTANCE
OF THESE PRINCIPLES TO OUR
DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLES. THE
GENERAL PROPOSITION THAT FREEDOM
OF EXPRESSION UPON PUBLIC
QUESTIONS IS SECURED BY THE
FIRST AMENDMENT HAS LONG BEEN
SETTLED BY OUR DECISIONS. THE
CONSTITUTIONAL SAFEGUARDS WE
HAVE SAID WAS FASHIONED TO
ENSURE
UNFETTERED INTERCHANGE OF IDEAS
FOR THE BRINGING ABOUT OF
POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CHANGES,
DESIRED BY THE PEOPLE.
TIMES THE SULLIVAN. OUR FIRST
AMENDMENT DECISIONS HAVE CREATED
A ROUGH ROOKIE IN THE
CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTION OF
SPEECH, CORE POLITICAL SPEECHES
OCCUPY THE HIGHEST, MOST
PROTECTED PROVISION.
EVEN POLITICAL SPEECH THAT MAY
INCITE UNLAWFUL CONDUCT IS
PROTECTED FROM THE REACH OF
GOVERNMENT.
THE COURT HAS HAD EVERY IDEA IS
AN INCITEMENT AND IF SPEECH MAY
BE SUPPRESSED WHEN IT MIGHT
INSPIRE SOME TRACT FULLY, THERE
IS NO LIMIT TO THE STATES SINCE
WE'LL POWER. THE GOVERNMENT MAY
NOT PROHIBIT SPEECH BECAUSE IT
INCREASES THE CHANCES OF AN
UNLAWFUL ACT WILL BE COMMITTED
AT SOME INDEFINITE TIME IN THE
FUTURE. THE HOUSE MANAGERS
SHOWED YOU A SERIES OF TWEETS
GOING ALL THE WAY BACK TO 2015
IN AN EFFORT TO PROVE
INCITEMENT. ALL OF THAT EVIDENCE
IS TOTALLY IRRELEVANT UNDER THE
CONSTITUTIONAL DEFINITION OF
INCITEMENT.
BRANDENBURG VERSUS OHIO IS
REALLY THE LANDMARK CASE ON THE
ISSUE OF INCITEMENT SPEECH. HALF
OF THE CASE WAS MENTIONED
YESTERDAY. IN THE
. VERSUS OHIO CASE, ANOTHER
LANDMARK, THE COURT HELD THAT
THE GOVERNMENT MAY ONLY SUPPRESS
SPEECH FOR ADVOCATING THE USE OF
FORCE OR A VIOLATION OF LAW IF
SUCH ADVOCACY IS DIRECTED
INCITING OR REDUCING IMMINENT
LAWLESS ACTION AND IS LIKELY TO
INCITE OR PRODUCE SUCH ACTION.
BRANDENBURG HOLDINGS HAS BEEN
INTERPRETED AS HAVING THREE
BASIC PRONGS TO DETERMINE IF
SPEECH MEET THE DEFINITION OF
INCITEMENT. THE BRANDENBURG TEST
PRECLUDES SPEECH FROM BEING
SANCTIONED AS INCITEMENT TO A
RIOT
. UNLESS THE SPEECH EXPOSITORY
OR ENCOURAGED USE OF
VIOLENT ACTION. TWO, THE SPEAKER
INTENDS HIS SPEECH WILL RESULT
IN USE OF VIOLENCE OR LAWLESS
ACTION. AND THREE, THE IMMINENT
USE OF VIOLENCE OR LAWLESS
ACTION IS LIKELY IS THE LIKELY
RESULT OF THE SPEECH. THE HOUSE
MANAGERS CANNOT GET PAST THE
FIRST PRONG OF THE BRANDENBURG
TEST. THEY HAVE NOT AND CANNOT
PROVE MR. TRUMP EXPLICITLY OR
IMPLICITLY ENCOURAGED USE OF
VIOLENCE OR LAWLESS ACTION.
BRANDENBURG REQUIRES A CLOSE
EXAMINATION OF THE WORDS
THEMSELVES.
THE WORDS ARE EITHER IMPORTANT
OR THEY ARE NOT. THE HOUSE AT
MANAGERS ADMITTED THE SECOND
ISSUE IS NOT ABOUT THE WORDS.
WHY NOT?
BECAUSE ON THE FACE OF IT, MR.
TRUMP'S WORDS ARE NO DIFFERENT
THAN THE FIGURATIVE SPEECH USED
BY EVERY ONE OF THE SENATORS
ASSEMBLED HERE TODAY. IF IT IS
NOT ABOUT THE WORDS ABOUT THE
BIG LIGHT OF THE STOLEN
ELECTION, WHITE SENT HOUSE
MANAGER RASKIN  GUILTY, SINCE HE
TRIED TO OVERTURN THE 2016
ELECTION? THE MORE THE HOUSE
MANAGERS SPEAK, THE MORE
HYPOCRISY GETS REVEALED.
HYPOCRISY
. EVEN THOUGH THEY SAY IT IS NOT
ABOUT THE WORDS, THE LAW UNDER
BRANDENBURG REQUIRES A CLOSE
ANALYSIS OF THE WORDS TO
DETERMINE INCITEMENT. WE NEED TO
LOOK AT THOSE WORDS.
MR. TRUMP DID THE OPPOSITE OF
ADVOCATING FOR LAWLESS ACTION,
THE OPPOSITE. HE ESPECIALLY
ADVOCATED FOR PEACEFUL ACTION AT
THE SAVE AMERICA RALLY. HE
SPECIFICALLY STATED, THESE ARE
THE WORDS
, "I KNOW THAT EVERYONE HERE
WILL SOON BE MARCHING OVER TO
THE CAPITOL BUILDING TO
PEACEFULLY AND PATRIOTICALLY
MAKE YOUR VOICES HEARD
." TO PEACEFULLY AND
PATRIOTICALLY MAKE YOUR VOICES
HEARD. THAT IS HOW THIS
PRESIDENT HAS SPOKEN FOR YEARS
WHEN HE CONDEMNS VIOLENCE,
LAWLESSNESS, AND RIOTERS. THE
HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE PLAYED
MANIPULATED, SELECTIVELY EDITED
PARTS OF MR. TRUMP'S SPEECH.
THEY FOCUS HEAVILY ON THE WORD
FIGHT. THE PRESIDENT USED THE
WORD FIGHT 20 TIMES IN HIS
SPEECH. THEY PICKED ONLY TWO.
WHY?
WHY NOT THE OTHER 18? THEY DON'T
TELL THE STORY THE WAY THEY WANT
TO TELL IT. HERE ARE ALL OF THEM
. LISTEN TO THE CONTEXT.
&gt;&gt; RUDY, YOU DID A GREAT JOB.
HE'S GOT GUTS. YOU KNOW WHAT,
HE'S GOT GUTS
. UNLIKE A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY. HE'S GOT GUTS.
HE FIGHTS. HE FIGHTS. I WILL
TELL YOU, THANK YOU VERY MUCH
JOHN, FANTASTIC JOB. THAT IS A
TOUGH ACT TO FOLLOW, THOSE TWO.
THERE ARE SO MANY WEAK
REPUBLICANS AND WE HAVE GREAT
ONES. JIM JORDAN AND SOME OF
THESE GUYS, THEY ARE OUT THERE
FIGHTING, THE HOUSE GUYS ARE
FIGHTING. IT IS INCREDIBLE. MANY
OF THE REPUBLICANS, I HELPED
THEM GET IN, I HELPED THEM GET
ELECTED. HOW DO YOU SAY I WANT
TO GET RID OF AMERICA FIRST?
EVEN IF YOU ARE GOING TO DO IT,
DON'T TALK ABOUT IT, RIGHT?
UNBELIEVABLE WHAT WE HAVE TO GO
THROUGH. BUT WE HAVE TO GO
THROUGH AND YOU HAVE TO GET YOUR
PEOPLE TO FIGHT. IF THEY DON'T
FIGHT, WE HAVE TO PENURY THE OUT
OF THE ONES THAT DON'T FIGHT.
THE PRIMARY THEN. WE GOING TO
LET YOU KNOW WHO THEY ARE. I CAN
ALREADY TELL YOU, FRANKLY.
REPUBLICANS ARE CONSTANTLY
FIGHTING LIKE A BOXER WITH HIS
HANDS TIED BEHIND HIS BACK. IT
IS LIKE A BOXER AND WE WANT TO
BE SO NICE. WE WANT TO BE SO
RESPECTFUL OF EVERYBODY
INCLUDING BAD PEOPLE. WE ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO FIGHT MUCH
HARDER. MIKE PENCE IS GOING TO
HAVE TO COME THROUGH FOR US. AND
IF HE DOESN'T, THAT WILL BE A
SAD DAY FOR OUR COUNTRY. BECAUSE
YOU ARE SWORN TO UPHOLD OUR
CONSTITUTION. THE CREDIBILITY
SAYS IF WE SEE SOMEBODY
THAT DOESN'T TREAT OUR AS WELL
OR THEY STEAL, THEY ROB, THEY DO
THINGS BADLY, WE SAY JOE, YOU
ARE FIRED, GET OUT OF HERE. YOU
COULDN'T DO THAT BEFORE.
SO WE HAVE TAKEN CARE OF THINGS.
WE HAVE DONE THINGS LIKE NOBODY
HAS EVER THOUGHT POSSIBLE. THAT
IS PART OF THE REASON THAT MANY
PEOPLE DON'T LIKE US, BECAUSE WE
HAVE DONE TOO MUCH. BUT WE HAVE
DONE IT QUICKLY AND WE WERE
GOING TO SIT HOME AND WATCH A
BIG VICTORY AND EVERYONE HAD US
DOWN FOR A VICTORY. IT WAS GOING
TO BE GREAT. NOW WE ARE OUT HERE
FIGHTING. I SAID TO SOMEBODY I
WAS GOING TO TAKE A FEW DAYS AND
RELAX AFTER OUR BIG ELECTORAL
VICTORY. 10:00 IT WAS OVER. THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE DO NOT BELIEVE
THE CORRUPT FAKE NEWS ANYMORE.
THEY HAVE RUINED THEIR
REPUTATION. IT USED TO BE THEY
WOULD ARGUE WITH ME. I WOULD
FIGHT. THEY WOULD FIGHT. I WOULD
FIGHT. YOU BELIEVE ME, TO
BELIEVE THEM, SOMEONE COMES OUT,
YOU KNOW. THEY HAVE THEIR POINT
OF VIEW, I HAVE MY POINT OF
VIEW. BUT YOU WOULD HAVE AN
ARGUMENT. KNOW WHAT THEY DO IS
THEY GO SILENT. IT IS CALLED
SUPPRESSION. THAT IS WHAT
HAPPENS IN A COMMUNIST COUNTRY.
THAT IS WHAT THEY DO. THEY
SUPPRESS. YOU DON'T FIGHT WITH
THEM ANYMORE
UNLESS IT'S A BAD STORY. THEY
HAVE A LITTLE BAD STORY ABOUT
ME, THEY MAKE IT 10 TIMES WORSE
AND IS A MAJOR HEADLINE. HUNTER
BIDEN, THEY DON'T TALK ABOUT
HIM. WHAT HAPPENED TO HUNTER,
WHERE IS HUNTER. WITH YOUR HELP
OVER THE LAST FOUR YEARS, WE
BUILD THE GREATEST POLITICAL
MOVEMENT IN THE HISTORY OF OUR
COUNTRY AND NO ONE EVEN
CHALLENGES FOR THAT. I SAY THAT
OVER AND OVER AND I NEVER GET
CHALLENGED BY THE FAKE NEWS AND
THEY CHALLENGE ALMOST EVERYTHING
WE SAY. OUR FIGHT AGAINST THE
BIG DONORS, BIG MEDIA, BIG TECH
AND OTHERS IS JUST GETTING
STARTED. THIS IS THE GREATEST IN
HISTORY. THERE HAS NEVER BEEN A
MOVEMENT LIKE THAT. OUR
BRIGHTEST DAYS ARE BEFORE US.
OUR GREATEST ACHIEVEMENTS
, STILL WAIT. I THINK ONE OF OUR
GREATEST ACHIEVEMENTS WILL BE
ELECTION SECURITY. NOBODY UNTIL
I CAME ALONG HAD ANY IDEA HOW
CORRUPT OUR ELECTIONS WERE.
AGAIN, MOST PEOPLE WOULD STAND
THERE AT 9:00 IN THE EVENING AND
SAY I WANT TO THANK YOU VERY
MUCH AND THEY GO OFF TO SOME
OTHER LIFE BUT I SAID SOMETHING
IS WRONG HERE, SOMETHING IS
REALLY WRONG, CAN'T HAVE
HAPPENED. AND WE FIGHT. WE FIGHT
LIKE . IF YOU DON'T FIGHT LIKE ,
YOU ARE NOT GOING TO HAVE A
COUNTRY ANYMORE. OUR EXCITING
ADVENTURES AND BOLDEST ENDEAVORS
HAVE NOT YET BEGUN. MY FELLOW
AMERICANS, FOR OUR MOVEMENT, FOR
OUR CHILDREN, AND FOR OUR
BELOVED COUNTRY, AND I SAY THIS
DESPITE ALL THAT HAS HAPPENED,
THE BEST IS YET TO COME.
&gt;&gt; A BOXER FIGHTING WITH HIS
HAND TIED BEHIND HIS BACK?
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS THINKING?
RUDY BEING RUDY
? THESE ARE THE METAPHORICAL,
RHETORICAL USES OF THE WORD
FIGHT. WE ALL KNOW THAT, RIGHT?
SUDDENLY THE WORD FIGHT IS OFF
LIMITS? SPARE US THE HYPOCRISY
AND FALSE INDIGNATION. IT IS A
TERM USED OVER AND OVER AND OVER
AGAIN BY POLITICIANS ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE AISLE. OF COURSE,
THE DEMOCRAT HOUSE MANAGERS KNOW
THAT THE WORD FIGHT HAS BEEN
USED FIGURATIVELY IN POLITICAL
SPEECH FOREVER. DON'T TAKE IT
FROM ME, IT IS BEST TO LISTEN TO
THEM
.
&gt;&gt; OUR MISSION IS TO JOB.
&gt;&gt; OUR JOB IS TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE IN A FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; DEMOCRATS ARE FIGHTING AS
HARD AS WE CAN.
&gt;&gt; DEMOCRATS ARE STAYING UP TO
FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE KNOW HOW TO FIGHT. WE LIKE
A GOOD FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; DEMOCRATS ARE GOING TO FIGHT
LIKE .
&gt;&gt; WE FIGHT LIKE .
&gt;&gt; I WILL FIGHT LIKE .
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO FIGHT LIKE .
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TO FIGHT LIKE .
&gt;&gt; I KNOW MANY OTHER MEMBERS
OF THE SENATE AND THE HOUSE ARE
GOING TO FIGHT LIKE .
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO FIGHT LIKE .
&gt;&gt; WE JUST HAVE TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO FIGHT, WE ARE
GOING TO FIGHT, WE ARE GOING TO
FIGHT, WE ARE GOING TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; POLITICAL REVOLUTION. THAT
MEANS THAT MILLIONS. MILLIONS.
MILLIONS. HAVE GOT TO STAND UP
AND FIGHT. AND FIGHT AND FIGHT.
STAND UP AND FIGHT BACK.
&gt;&gt; TO CONTINUE TO FIGHT. ONCE
AGAIN FIGHT BACK.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE FIGHTING BACK.
&gt;&gt; MY FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YOU DON'T GET WHAT YOU DON'T
FIGHT FOR.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL FIGHT HIM AND
CHALLENGE HIM IN EVERY WAY THAT
WE CAN.
&gt;&gt; FIGHT IN CONGRESS, FIGHT THE
COURTS, FIGHT IN THE STREETS.
&gt;&gt; AND THE CONGRESS, THE COURTS,
AND THE STREET.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS THE FIGHT AND THEN
THERE IS THE FIGHT TO DEFEND.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO TAKE ON THE
SITE.
&gt;&gt; THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO HAVE TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; GET IN THIS FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; AROUND THE CLOCK FIGHTING.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TO KEEP FIGHTING AND
KEEP FOCUSED.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL FIGHT WHEN WE MUST
FIGHT.
&gt;&gt;
WE NEED TO FIGHT BUT WE ALSO
NEED TO FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; IT IS ALWAYS GOING TO BE AN
UPHILL FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE ALWAYS MUST FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE IN THE FIGHT OF OUR
LIVES.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO BE IN THE
FIGHT OF OUR LIVES.
&gt;&gt; THE FIGHT OF THEIR LIVES.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE IN THIS FIGHT FOR OUR
LIVES.
&gt;&gt; WE CANNOT EVER GIVE UP
FIGHTING.
&gt;&gt; HYPOCRISY. THE REALITY IS MR.
TRUMP IS NOT IN ANY WAY, SHAPE,
OR FORM INSTRUCTING THESE PEOPLE
TO FIGHT OR TO USE PHYSICAL
VIOLENCE. WHAT HE WAS
INSTRUCTING THEM TO DO WAS TO
CHALLENGE THEIR OPPONENTS IN
PRIMARY ELECTIONS TO PUSH FOR
SWEEPING ELECTION REFORMS, TO
HOLD BIG TECH RESPONSIBLE, ALL
CUSTOMARY AND LEGAL WAYS TO
PETITION YOUR GOVERNMENT FOR
REDRESS OF GRIEVANCES, WHICH OF
COURSE IS ALSO PROTECTED
CONSTITUTIONAL SPEECH. THE HOUSE
MANAGERS DON'T WANT YOU TO FOCUS
ON THOSE THINGS BECAUSE AGAIN,
IT DOES NOT FIT THEIR STORY.
IN THE END, I LEAVE YOU WITH
THIS QUOTE FROM BENJAMIN
FRANKLIN.
"FREEDOM OF SPEECH IS A
PRINCIPAL PILLAR OF A FREE
GOVERNMENT. WHEN THIS SUPPORT IS
TAKEN AWAY, THE CONSTITUTION OF
A FREE SOCIETY IS DISSOLVED AND
TYRANNY IS ERECTED ON ITS RUINS.
" THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE MAJORITY LEADER.
&gt;&gt; I ASK UNANIMOUS CONSENT OF
THE SENATE RECESS FOR A 15
MINUTE BREAK.
&gt;&gt; NO OBJECTIONS.
&gt;&gt; A BRIEF RECESS AS PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S LAWYERS LAY OUT THE CASE
WHY THEY BELIEVE HE SHOULD NOT
BE FOUND GUILTY BY THIS COURT OF
SENATORS. LET'S GO TO JAMES
HOLMAN TO GO OVER THE DETAILS OF
WHAT WE JUST SAW. JAMES, A
COUPLE OF TIMES I THOUGHT I
HIT THE WRONG BUTTON AND WE WERE
GOING BACK AND I BECAUSE THEY
REPLAYED THE SAME FOOTAGE OVER
AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN. WHAT IS
FOR THE UTILITY OF THAT?
&gt;&gt; THE UTILITY IS REPETITION.
THIS
CAN ONLY BE, IS FOR AN AUDIENCE
OF ONE. THIS ISN'T ABOUT
PERSUADING PEOPLE. THEY KNOW
THEY HAVE THE VOTES LOCKED DOWN
TO GET AN ACQUITTAL. THEY ARE
TRYING TO KEEP THEIR CLIENT, THE
FORMER PRESIDENT, HAPPY. A LOT
OF THIS SEEMS DESIGNED TO REALLY
BE TROLLING AS MUCH AS LAWYERING
. FRANKLY TALKING ABOUT THE
DEMOCRAT PARTY INSTEAD OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY, TALKING ABOUT
HOW THIS IS CONSTITUTIONAL
CANCEL CULTURE. THESE AREN'T
LEGAL TERMS OR TURNS OF PHRASES.
THIS IS ABOUT PLAYING TO THE
TRUMP BASE AND TRYING TO WIN IN
THEIR COURT OF PUBLIC OPINION.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, I WANT TO SHARE WITH
YOU SOME OF THE NOTES WE ARE
GETTING. WE HAVE A POOL OF
REPORTERS WHO ARE ABLE TO BE IN
THAT CALORIE WATCHING OVER
THE SENATOR'S REACTIONS, WHICH
IS VERY IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT
GIVES US A SENSE OF THE STATE OF
MIND AND HOW THEY ARE SORT OF
PHYSICALLY AND VISUALLY REACTING
TO THINGS. WE ARE GETTING SOME
DETAILS ABOUT WHAT IS HAPPENING
INSIDE THE CHAMBER. SHE POINTS
OUT THAT ALL OF THIS VIDEO
PLAYING OVER AND OVER AGAIN CUT
THE HEAVINESS IN THE ROOM. IT IS
LIKE THIS. CLEANSER IN A WAY, A
THEME CHANGER FROM THE VERY
INTENSE FOOTAGE WE SAW DELIVERED
BY THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS. AND SO THERE IS A WAY
THAT THIS ALLOWS REPUBLICANS TO
SORT OF MOVE ON TO A DIFFERENT,
YOU KNOW, A DIFFERENT PART HERE.
I AM HEARING FROM STAFFERS OF
DEMOCRATS
, WHO ARE ABSOLUTELY FINE THEIR
BUSES ARE FEATURED IN THESE
VIDEOS BECAUSE IT IS LIKE A
BADGE OF HONOR TO SOME OF THEM
BECAUSE THEY DON'T SEE THIS AS
BEING IN ANY WAY PARALLEL TO
WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS DONE.
&gt;&gt; IN FACT, NONE OF THE, THOSE
STATEMENTS WERE FOLLOWED BY
ANGRY MOBS DESCENDING ON THE
CAPITOL OR COMMITTING VIOLENT.
IT IS, FOR A LOT OF THOSE
DEMOCRATS, A BADGE OF HONOR. IT
WAS IRONIC BECAUSE THE TWO
EMPLOYERS CHOOSE TO RELITIGATE
CHARLOTTESVILLE, WHICH GIVEN A
LOT OF THE PRESIDENT BIGGEST
DEFENDERS AND STRONGEST
SUPPORTERS AGREE WAS ONE OF THE
LOW POINTS. WHEN HE SAID THERE
WERE SOME VERY FINE PEOPLE
ON BOTH SIDES AND THE TRUMP
DEFENSE LAWYERS. WITH YOU ABOUT
WHAT THE MEDIA
DOESN'T SHOW YOU THE
THREE-MINUTE FULL CLIP WHERE HE
ALSO SAID THE NEO-NAZIS WERE BAD
AND THAT WE ARE GOING TO PLAY
THIS WHOLE THREE-MINUTE CLIP
BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO HAVE THE
WALL CONTACT. IMMEDIATELY AFTER
THAT THEY SAID NO WE ARE GOING
TO SHOW YOU THIS A FIVE MINUTE
MONTAGE OF DEMOCRATIC SENATORS
AND HOUSE TREATMENT MANAGERS
SAYING THE WORD FIGHT OVER
AGAIN. I WAS AT A LOT OF THOSE
THINGS, WE COVERED THE CAMPAIGN
TOGETHER. A LOT OF THE CONTEXT,
SOME OF THE
KAMALA HARRIS AND ONE OF THE
DEBATES, ONE OF THE SUGAR CLIPS
WHERE HE WAS SAYING FIGHT, I
REMEMBER VERY WELL HE WAS SAYING
WE HAVE TO FIGHT COVID-19
BECAUSE WE NEED TO FIGHT THIS
PANDEMIC. SO IT WAS KIND OF
AMUSING TO WATCH THIS LECTURE ON
NOT TAKING THINGS OUT OF CONTEXT
FOLLOWED BY DIGGING DEMOCRATS
OUT OF CONTEXT.
&gt;&gt; ELIZABETH WARREN, YOU KNOW,
FIGHTING FOR POLICY CHANGES.
ELIZABETH WARREN WASN'T
ENCOURAGING PEOPLE TO ACTUALLY
TAKE UP ARMS AND COMMIT VIOLENT
ACTS, JAMES. THAT IS IMPORTANT
BECAUSE THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
NEEDS TO HAVE THE CONTEXT WITH
THESE CLIPS. IF THEY ARE TAKEN
OUT OF CONTEXT, IT CAN BE
MISLEADING.
&gt;&gt;
THAT WAS ONE OF THE THINGS WE
SAW THE LAST TWO DAYS, LIBBY.
THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
WERE TALKING ABOUT EVERYTHING
LEADING UP TO JANUARY SIXTH.
WHAT THEY
THE SAVE THE DATE INVITATION 18
DAYS OUT, WHERE HE SAID, D.C.
JANUARY 6, WE WILL BE WILD. THE
WHOLE CONTEXT OF THE SPEECH. "IN
WAS NOTABLE WAS BECAUSE WE HAVE
SEEN THE CLIPS OF TRUMP AT THAT
STOP THE STEEL REALLY
, ONE OF THE THINGS THE
DEMOCRATS DID WAS PLAY FOOTAGE
FROM THE CROWD SO THAT YOU COULD
SEE HOW THE CROWD WAS REACTING
TO TRUMP'S COMMENTS. YOU SAW
LOTS OF PEOPLE IN THE CROWD
SAYING
, "LET'S STORM THE CAPITOL.
STORM THE CAPITOL RIGHT NOW.
TAKE THE CAPITOL. HANG MIKE
PENCE." THAT WAS HOW THEY WERE
RESPONDING. TRUMP COULD HEAR
THAT. TRUMP WAS LISTENING TO THE
CROWD AS HE WAS SPEAKING. TODAY,
YOU ARE JUST SEEING THE TIGHT
SHOT OF TRUMP AND IT IS JUST HIS
MICROPHONE SO YOU ARE NOT
HEARING THE CROWDS RESPONSE
WHERE THEY WERE CLEARLY BEING
HELD UP BY THE PRESIDENT AT THE
TIME AND TRUMP ALSO SPOKE AFTER
HOURS OF SIMILARLY INCENDIARY
SPEECHES
WHERE RUDY GIULIANI, THE
PRESIDENT'S PERSONAL LAWYER SAID
IF YOU HOURS BEFORE TRUMP TOOK
THE STAGE, TODAY IS GOING TO BE
TRIAL BY COMBAT.
THE CONTEXT THEIR MATTERS AND
THAT IS WHAT THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS WERE TRAINED TO DO BY
SHARING THOSE VIDEOS AND SHOWING
THE DISTANCE OF TWEETS LEADING
UP TO JANUARY 6th TWO SO THIS
WASN'T STANDARD FARE A LITTLE
RHETORIC ABOUT THE NEED TO FIGHT
HARD, WHICH IS WHAT WAS
ELIZABETH WARREN'S 2020
CAMPAIGN SLOGAN.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, YOUR TOP TAKEAWAYS
FROM WHAT WE HAVE SEEN SO FAR.
&gt;&gt; MY TOP TAKEAWAYS IS FIRST
HALF, WHEN WE HEARD DAVID SCHOEN
SAY  THEIR FINDINGS THAT
VIDEOS HAVE BEEN EDITED AND
SHOWED THE TWEET AND CLEANED THE
DATES DIDN'T MATCH UP. AFTER
THAT, THEY STARTED SHOWING
HEAVILY EDITED VIDEO MONTAGES AS
WELL. AS YOU AND JAMES JUST
POINTED OUT, A LOT OF CONTEXT
MIGHT HAVE BEEN LOST, ESPECIALLY
IN THE MONTAGE THAT KEPT SHOWING
DEMOCRAT USING THE WORD FIGHT.
WE REALLY DON'T KNOW
WHAT THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT,
EVEN IF THEY WERE USING THE WORD
FIGHT. IT IS IMPORTANT THAT THEY
ARE CRITICIZING THE DEMOCRATS
FOR DOING ONE THING AND KIND OF
FOLLOWING UP AND DOING THE SAME
THING. ON BOTH SIDES, IT IS VERY
IMPORTANT FOR VIEWERS TO
UNDERSTAND THE CONTEXT OF THINGS
AND I ONE SIDE IS SAYING THIS
ABOUT THE OTHER SIDE AND I HAVE
REACHED OUT TO THOSE FAMILIAR
WITH THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS PRESENTATIONS AND I AM
INSPECTING SOME SORT OF COMMENT
SOON FROM
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AND
WHAT THEY ARE SAYING ABOUT THE
CLAIMS THAT THEIR PRESENTATIONS
WERE MANIPULATED. I DON'T KNOW
IF THAT IS GOING TO COME BEFORE
THE END OF THIS WEEK OR LATER IN
THE DAY BUT I DO SUSPECT THE
MANAGERS TEAM WILL BE SAYING
SOMETHING ABOUT THESE KINDS. I
AM ALSO STRUCK TOO BY THE
LENGTHY PRESENTATION WE WENT
THROUGH ABOUT THE FIRST
AMENDMENT PROTECTIONS THAT THE
PRESIDENT IS UNDER, THE FORMER
PRESIDENT IS UNDER. THIS SITE IS
CLAIMING HE IS PROTECTED BY
CERTAIN PRECEDENTS LIKE
BOND VISITS FLORIDA, WHICH SAYS
STATE LEGISLATORS CAN WEIGH IN
ON CONTROVERSIAL POLITICAL
MATTERS. I AM WONDERING IF LEGAL
SCHOLARS ARE LOOKING INTO THAT
AND IT BEING APPLICABLE TO THIS
CASE. IT IS FOR STATE
LEGISLATORS AND THE STATE CANNOT
UNSEAT A LEGISLATIVE MEMBER
BECAUSE THAT EXTENDS TO A
PRESIDENT WHO ACTUALLY GAVE, YOU
KNOW, A DATE TO HIS FOLLOWERS TO
COME TO D.C. AND DO A SPECIFIC
ACTION. SO
THOSE ARE THE TOP TWO TAKEAWAYS
THAT I HAVE. THESE WERE ALL
EXPECTED, REALLY. WE KNEW THE
DEFENSE TEAM WOULD COME IN TODAY
AND DISCUSSED THE FIRST
AMENDMENT PROTECTIONS
, AS WELL AS RIGHT AT THE
BEGINNING THEY STARTED TALKING
ABOUT HOW THIS IS NO EDWARD
ANYWAY BECAUSE IT IS NOT
CONSTITUTIONAL. THAT SOMETHING
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ASK
THEM TO STAY AWAY FROM BECAUSE
IT IS NO LONGER GERMANE SINCE
THE SENATE VOTED ON TUESDAY THAT
IT IS CONSTITUTIONAL AND WE WILL
MOVE FORWARD WITH THE TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO INTO THAT FIRST
AMENDMENT POINT THAT YOU ARE IS
GETTING RIGHT NOW. WE HAVE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT THE SUPERCUTS THAT
THE TRUMP TEAM DID, BECAUSE OF
DEMOCRAT USING THE WORD FIGHT.
THEIR ARGUMENT AFTER THAT WAS
THAT TRUMP'S RHETORIC IS NORMAL
POLITICAL SPEECH. LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt; I SHOWED YOU THE VIDEO
BECAUSE IN THIS POLITICAL FORUM
, ALTHOUGH BEST SPEECH SHOULD BE
PROTECTED AND IT SHOULD BE
PROTECTED EVENLY FOR ALL OF US.
AS A BRIEF ASIDE, WE SHOULD ALL
REFLECT AND A KNOWLEDGE THE
RHETORIC HAS GOTTEN TO BE TOO
MUCH. AND OVER THE TOP. IT IS
CREATING ON THE COLLECTIVE
WELL-BEING OF THE BODY PUBLIC,
THE CITIZENS
. MOST WOULD LIKE IT TO STOP.
THE POINT IS, WHEN YOU SEE
SPEECH SUCH AS THIS, YOU HAVE TO
APPLY THE FIRST AMENDMENT
EVENLY, BLINDLY
, SHE IS BLIND, LADY JUSTICE.
&gt;&gt; JAMES HOMAN, TO HEAR ONE OF
THE PRESIDENT LAWYERS TALKING
ABOUT THE RHETORIC BEING OUT OF
CONTROL REMINDED ME OF SEEING
THE FORMER FIRST LADY MELANIA
TRUMP TRYING TO WAGE A CAMPAIGN
TO STOP BULLYING, EVEN AS
HER HUSBAND LITERALLY BULLIED
PEOPLE, INCLUDING NOT JUST THE
OPPOSING TEAM BUT MEMBERS OF HIS
OLD TEAM, LIKE THE FIRST, THE
VICE PRESIDENT.
THERE IS THIS HYPOCRISY
HAPPENING THERE. I WANT TO POINT
OUT, JAMES, WE ARE SEEING
SENATOR TED CRUZ LEAVING THE
ROOM WHERE TRUMP'S LEGAL TEAM
HAS BEEN PREPARING. SIGNIFICANT
BECAUSE WE ARE WATCHING TO SEE
COORDINATION
BETWEEN SOME OF THESE
REPUBLICANS, WHO ARE LISTENING
IN THE AUDIENCE, WHO ARE THE
JURORS, AND THE TRUMP TEAM.
LET'S REFLECT ON, AND I AM USING
THE WORD HYPOCRISY CAREFULLY. TO
HEAR THAT COMING OUT OF AN
ATTORNEY'S MOUTH ABOUT A MAN WHO
HAS NOT APOLOGIZED FOR BULLYING
AND THREATENING SPEECH
, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER YOU FIND
THEM GUILTY IN THIS MOMENT, HE
HAS DONE THAT.
&gt;&gt; IT IS A GREAT ANALOGY WITH
MELANIA TRUMP. IT IS SIGNIFICANT
LEGALLY BECAUSE WHAT YOU ARE
SAYING ALSO UNDERSCORES ONE OF
THE ARGUMENTS THAT THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS MADE. TRUMP
HAS SHOWN NO CONTRITION OR
REMORSE. IN A PROSECUTION, IN A
CRIMINAL TRIAL, THAT WOULD BE
INCREDIBLY RELEVANT TO NOT JUST
CONVICTION BUT SENTENCING. DOES
HE
RECOGNIZE THAT WHAT HE DID WAS
WRONG? ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
LAWYERS AT ONCE THAT TRUMP'S
WORDS AT THAT RALLY ON JANUARY
6th WERE PATRIOTIC. HE CALLED
THE LIQUID PATRIOTIC. HE SAID
TRUMP HAS NOTHING TO APOLOGIZE
FOR. ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
HEARD YESTERDAY WAS THAT THE A
COMMENT FROM HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS THAT THEY NEED TO
CONTACT TRUMP BECAUSE IT IS
GOING TO HAPPEN AGAIN IF THEY
DON'T. AS
TED LOU PUT IT, TRUMP COULD RUN
AND WAS IN 2024 AND THERE COULD
BE ANOTHER INSURRECTION BECAUSE
THE FORMER PRESIDENT WOULD ONCE
AGAIN, FEELING LIKE HE WAS DOING
NOTHING WRONG, FEELING LIKE HE
HAD BEEN VALIDATED BY HIS
ACQUITTAL FROM THE SENATE,
ENCOURAGE HIS SUPPORTERS TO GO
FIGHT LIKE AT CONGRESS. THAT
WOULD THEN APPEAR SANCTIONED.
THAT COMMENT, WHILE RICH
AND LAUGHABLE TO ANYONE WHO HAS
BEEN PAYING ATTENTION TO
AMERICAN POLITICS FOR THE PAST
FIVE YEARS, THE IDEA THAT DONALD
TRUMP'S LAWYERS LECTURING
SENATORS AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
THAT POLITICAL RHETORIC HAS
GOTTEN TOO OUT OF HAND ALSO
SPEAKS TO FRANKLY A CENTRAL
ELEMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC CASE
AGAINST THE FORMER PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; TRUMP'S DEFENSE LAWYER, HIS
DISCUSSION OF THE IMPEACHMENT
WAS CONSTITUTIONAL CANCEL
CULTURE. LET'S WANT THAT.
&gt;&gt; NOT ONLY IS THIS IMPEACHMENT
CASE PREPOSTEROUSLY ROMAN
EFFECTS, NO MATTER HOW MUCH HEAT
AND EMOTION IS INJECTED BY THE
POLITICAL OPPOSITION, IT IS ALSO
PLAINLY UNCONSTITUTIONAL. IN
EFFECT, CONGRESS WOULD BE
CLAIMING THAT THE RIGHT TO
DISQUALIFY A PRIVATE CITIZEN NO
LONGER A GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL
FROM RUNNING FOR PUBLIC OFFICE
. THIS WOULD TRANSFORM THE SOUL
IMPEACHMENT PROCESS INTO A
MECHANISM FOR ASSERTING
CONGRESSIONAL CONTROL OVER WHICH
PRIVATE CITIZENS ARE AND ARE NOT
ALLOWED TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT.
IN SHORT, THIS UNPRECEDENTED
EFFORT IS NOT ABOUT DEMOCRATS
OPPOSING POLITICAL VIOLENCE. IT
IS ABOUT DEMOCRATS TRYING TO
DISQUALIFY THEIR POLITICAL
OPPOSITION. IT IS CONSTITUTIONAL
CANCEL CULTURE
.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL TALK MORE ABOUT THAT
IN A MOMENT. FIRST I WANT TO
BRING RADICAL AND BACK FOR MORE
ON HOW THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS ARE RESPONDING. RHONDA.
&gt;&gt; AS I SAID A LITTLE EARLIER, I
DID REACH OUT TO THE DEMOCRATS
IMPEACHMENT TEAM AND I JUST
HEARD FROM A SENIOR AIDE. SHE
SAYS THIS TO THE QUESTION OF
WHAT DO THEY THINK ABOUT TRUMP'S
LAWYERS CLAIMING THAT THE
EVIDENCE WAS MUTILATED. THEIR
ANSWER IS
, "AS TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS ARE NO
DOUBT AWARE, PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
TWITTER ACCOUNT HAS BEEN REMOVED
FROM TWITTER AND IT IS ONLY
AVAILABLE IN ARCHIVE INSTEAD OF
SCREENSHOTS. AS TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS SPOTLIGHTED BY
UNEXPECTEDLY CONDEMNING THE
MANAGERS FOR A DRAFT GRAPHIC OF
A TWEET
, IT IS NECESSARY TO FORMAT AND
BLOW UP THE TEXT OF TWEETS SO
THAT SENATORS CAN SEE IT. THE
TEXT IS ENTIRELY UNCHANGED. ALSO
AT THAT FINAL GRAPHIC
ACCIDENTALLY HAD A VERIFICATION
TO COMMENT ON IT. THE SUBSTANCE
OF IT WAS ENTIRELY ACCURATE.
WHAT IS TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS POINT,
IF ANYTHING
, IS A FURTHER EVIDENCE OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ATTENTION TO
AND KNOWLEDGE OF WHAT WAS BEING
OPENLY PLAYED ON JANUARY 6th BY
HIS FOLLOWERS. EVEN THOSE
WITHOUT TWITTER VERIFICATIONS.
SO THAT IS WHAT THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER, A SENIOR
AIDE WITH THE IMPEACHMENT
SAYING. THAT IS THEIR RESPONSE
TO DAVID SCHOEN'S CRITICISMS
THAT THE EVIDENCE THAT WAS USED
IS MANIPULATED AND EDITED DOWN.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, I WANT TO DWELL ON
THAT FOR A MOMENT. THERE WAS A
FOCUS THAT IT WAS A LITTLE
STRANGE, FRANKLY, WHERE THEY
WERE PICKING APART THE SCREEN
GRAB. THIS IS WHAT THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER EIGHT IS
RESPONDING TO AND THEY WERE
MAKING A BIG DEAL OUT OF A
BLUE TECHNIQUE. BECAUSE THEY
WERE TRYING TO SHOW THE VERACITY
OR TESTABILITY OF THE DEMOCRATIC
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS PROCESS. IT
SEEMED A BIT OFF-TOPIC.
&gt;&gt; IT SORT OF DID IT SEEMED LIKE
A GOTCHA MOMENT. WHEN MR.
DAVID SCHOEN STARTED TO BRING
THAT UP AND SAID THEY HAVE
EVIDENCE THIS HAS BEEN DELETED,
IT WAS  SOMETHING WE WERE
SITTING ON THE EDGE OF OUR SEATS
WONDERING OKAY, WHAT IS THIS? IT
SEEMS LIKE IT WAS PERHAPS BLOWN
OUT OF PROPORTION AND NOT FULLY
EXPLAINED. I HAD TO SIT AND
LISTEN A LITTLE HARDER WHEN HE
WAS EXPLAINING IT TO SEE HOW IT
TOUCHED HIS ARGUMENT A LITTLE
BIT. AGAIN, AS WE SAID AND HIS
TEAM FOLLOWED UP WITH HEAVILY
EDITED VIDEOS OF HIMSELF. IT IS
IMPORTANT FOR EVERYONE TO SEEK
THAT CONTEXT FROM BOTH SIDES TO
FIND OUT WHAT THESE EVIDENCE AND
THE VIDEO EDITING USED AND HOW
THAT EXPLAINS AN ARGUMENT AND
WHAT CONTEXT IT IS. I THINK
THERE WAS AN IMPORTANT
POINT EARLIER, THE CLIP THE CUP
USING OF CHUCK SCHUMER. IT WAS
REALLY IN RELATION TO COVID-19.
AGAIN, BOTH SIDES SHOULD ALWAYS
EXPLAIN WHERE THEY ARE GETTING
THEIR VIDEOS FROM AND
WHY THIS IS GERMANE TO THE POINT
THEY ARE TRYING TO MAKE.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, THE THING WE ARE
FOCUSING ON THE WAS A DRAFT OF
RETREAT. IT WAS NOT CHANGING THE
SUBSTANCE OF THE TWEET. IT WAS
JUST THE THING THE DATE WRONG,
WHICH WAS CORRECTED BEFORE WE
EVEN SAW IT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS TRUMP'S MO. TO USE
THE TERM YOU USED THE OTHER DAY,
THEIR DEFENSE STRATEGY, YOU SAID
THIS ON TUESDAY, IS I BELIEVE
DENIAL AND DEFIANCE. THIS IS
KIND OF THE WHAT ABOUTISM. THIS
IS SOMETHING WE  SAW THE LAST
FOUR YEARS, WHICH IS TO KIND OF
PICK ON SOMETHING LIKE THAT, YOU
KNOW, THE NEW CHECKMARK. ONE OF
THE REASONS, I MEAN THAT THE
STATEMENT ADDRESSED THIS TRUMP'S
TWEETS
AREN'T ONLINE ANYMORE SO THEY
HAVE TO BE RE-CREATED IN A WAY
THAT CAN BE BLOWN UP. IT IS NOT
SURPRISING THEY CONTINUE TO
FOCUS ON THESE SORTS OF THINGS
THAT WOULD PROBABLY PLAY VERY
WELL WITH THEIR CLIENT, THE KIND
OF THING TRUMP HIMSELF
WOULD BE WORKED UP ABOUT. TRUMP
HAS BEEN WORKED UP FOR YEARS
ABOUT CHARLOTTESVILLE, HAS
ALWAYS FELT LIKE HE WAS UNFAIRLY
ACCUSED OF SAYING THERE WERE
GOOD PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES.
AGAIN, THIS ARGUMENT IS AS MUCH
ABOUT REACHING TRUMP AND
APPEALING TO HIS CORE SUPPORTERS
AS IT IS PERSUADING PEOPLE WHO
ARE TRYING TO KEEP AN OPEN MIND
ON THE JURY THAT IS THE U.S.
SENATE.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO HANNAH JEWELL,
NATIONAL REPORTER WHO HAS BEEN
WATCHING TODAY'S PROCEEDINGS.
HANNAH, WHAT STANDS OUT TO YOU
IN THE DEFENSE IS HIS INTENTION?
&gt;&gt; AS JAMES JUST SAID, SPEAKING
OF APPEALING TO TRUMP'S CORPUS,
I WAS STRUCK BY THE WAY THE
FIRST 20 MINUTES OF HIS
PRESENTATION, TRUMP'S LAWYER,
MICHAEL VAN DER VEEN BROUGHT UP
SEVERAL  KEY CULTURE WAR TERMS
AND IDEAS THAT STUCK OUT TO ME.
FIRSTLY, HE SUGGESTED THAT
ANTIFA AND LEFT WING  ACTIVISTS
WERE BEHIND THE CAPITOL RIGHT.
HE SAID THE LEADER OF ANTIFA WAS
THE FIRST ARRESTED AND FIRST
PLACE.  THIS ISN'T TRUE ON A
NUMBER OF LEVELS. FIRSTLY, THERE
IS NO SUCH THING AS A LEADER OF
ANTIFA. THERE HAS BEEN NO
EVIDENCE THE RIOTERS  IN THE
CAPITOL ON THE SIXTH OR ANYTHING
OTHER THAN TRUMP SUPPORTERS. THE
FBI HAS FOUND NO SUCH EVIDENCE.
THE ONLY PERSON I THINK HE MIGHT
HAVE BEEN REFERRING TO AS I WAS
TRYING TO FIGURE THIS OUT AFTER
HEARING THAT WAS POTENTIALLY A
YOUNG MAN CALLED JOHN EARL
SULLIVAN, WHO WAS ARRESTED OVER
HIS ROLE AT THE CAPITOL. THIS IS
ACTUALLY THE MAN WHO TOOK THE
VIDEO SHOWING ASHLEY BABBIT'S
SHOOTING  DEATH BY THE POLICE.
HE SAID HE WAS THERE TO DOCUMENT
BUT HE WAS RESTED AND CHARGED
WITH TRESPASSING AND MISCONDUCT.
HE IS NOT A MEMBER OF ANTIFA.
THE POST HAS REPORTED HE IS A
STRANGE CHARACTER WHO IS NEITHER
A DARLING OF THE LEFT OR THE
RIGHT. HE ORGANIZED  SOCIAL
JUSTICE PROTESTS BUT HE HAS BEEN
TOTALLY DISOWNED BY BLACK LIVES
MATTER GROUPS IN UTAH, WHERE HE
IS FROM. HE HAS ORGANIZED
PROTESTS IN FAVOR OF GUN RIGHTS
AND HAS PROTESTED ALONGSIDE THE
FAR RIGHT PROUD BOYS. IF A
REPUBLICAN DID FIGURE. THIS IS
INDEED TO MICHAEL VAN DER VEEN
WAS TALKING ABOUT, IT IS NOT
TRUE  THAT HE WAS A SO-CALLED
LEADER OF ANTIFA  OR WAS SOMEHOW
DIRECT IN THE AREA. WHAT MATTERS
HERE IS THAT MICHAEL VAN DER
VEEN IS USING THIS KEYWORD,
ANTIFA, MEANT TO DEFLECT BLAME
FOR THE CAPITOL RIGHT TO THE
LEFT AND THIS LINE OF ARGUMENT
IS EFFECTIVE WITH TRUMP'S A
BASE. ABOUT HALF OF REPUBLICANS
BELIEVE THE Y IT WAS MOSTLY THE
FAULT OF ANTIFA AND THE LEFT ,
AS ""THE WASHINGTON POST"" HAS
REPORTED. LIBBY, THE OTHER KEY
PHASE THAT MICHAEL VAN DER VEEN
REFERRED TO, AS WE HEARD IN THAT
CLIP WITH  THE PHRASE CANCEL
CULTURE. IF YOU ARE NOT FAMILIAR
WITH IT, I AM JEALOUS OF YOU,
FIRST OF ALL. THE SHORT VERSION
OF WHAT THIS PHRASE MEANS IS THE
IDEA THAT IF A PUBLIC FIGURE
DOES OR SAYS SOMETHING
OBJECTIONABLE
, THE PUBLIC WITHDRAWS OF THEIR
SUPPORT AND ATTENTION FROM THAT
FIGURE. THE PEOPLE ON THE RIGHT
AND ALSO ON THE LEFT HAVE
COME TO USE THIS TERM TO REFER
TO A MORE SINISTER PHENOMENON,
AND UNJUST AND OVERBLOWN
REACTION THAT WOMEN'S LIVES AND
CAREERS.
THIS PHRASE CANCEL CULTURE HAS
TAKEN A WILD JOURNEY THROUGH
POLITICS. THERE IS A UNIVERSITY
OF REGINA PROFESSOR, MEREDITH
CLARK, WHO HAS WRITTEN THIS
GREAT PAPER THAT TRACES THE
ORIGINS OF THIS TERM FROM BLACK
AMERICAN VERNACULAR LANGUAGE TO
BE CO-OPTED BY CONSERVATIVES TO
WRITE THAT WHEN THIS PHRASE IS
USED TODAY, AS WE HAVE SEEN IT,
IT IS MEANT TO RECAST SOCIAL
ACTIVISM AS A BAT AND SCARY
THING. THIS IS REALLY JUST A NEW
WORD FOR AN OLD IDEA. ANY
PREVIOUS DECADE, WE MIGHT'VE
HEARD VAN DER VEEN REFERRED TO
DEMOCRATS AS
POLITICALLY CORRECT FOR
OBJECTING TO TRUMP'S WITH TO
DRIVE HOME HOW ABSURD IT IS THAT
THE WAY SYSTEM THAT COMES FROM
POP CULTURE AND ACTIVISM HAS
MADE ITS WAY TO THE SENATE FLOOR
AND THE ADDED ABSURDITY OF
SAYING THE FORMER PRESIDENT, WHO
WAS ONCE THE MOST POWERFUL
PERSON IN THE ENTIRE WORLD,
COULD BE CANCELED. IT IS NOT A
CANCELLATION, IT IS AN
IMPEACHMENT. SADLY, CULTURE WAR
ARGUMENTS DON'T HAVE A LOT OF
BASIS IN TRUTH A LOT OF THE
TIMES. LIBBY.
&gt;&gt; HANNAH JEWELL, NATIONAL
REPORTER. THANK YOU SO MUCH. THE
SENIOR SENATOR FROM CONNECTICUT,
THIS IS DEMOCRAT RICHARD
BLUMENTHAL
JUST STOPPED TO TALK TO
REPORTERS A FEW MINUTES AGO.
HERE IS HIS TAKE ON THE DEFENSES
PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE TRYING TO DRAW A
FALSE, DANGEROUS, AND DISTORTED
EQUIVALENTS. I THINK IT IS
PLAINLY A DISTRACTION FROM
DONALD TRUMP'S INVITING THE MOB
TO WASHINGTON YOU KNOW WHEN IT
WAS ARMED. CHANGING THE ROUTE
AND THE TIMING SO AS TO INCITE
THEM TOO MUCH ON THE CAPITOL AND
THEN REVELING WITHOUT REMORSE,
WITHOUT DOING ANYTHING
TO PROTECT HIS OWN VICE
PRESIDENT AND ALL OF US. I THINK
THAT THE CASE IS EVEN MORE
POWERFUL AFTER THIS VERY
DISTORTED AND FALSE ARGUMENT.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS
DEMOCRAT FROM CONNECTICUT,
RICHARD BLUMENTHAL. HERE IS WHAT
SENATOR LISA MURKOWSKI HAD TO
SAY. THIS IS PER THE POOL
REPORT. SHE SAYS, "I THINK THEY
ARE PUTTING ON A GOOD DEFENSE
TODAY AND THE FIRST TWO HOURS OR
WELL PUT TOGETHER." SHE SAYS
THEY ARE MORE ON THEIR GAME
TODAY, THESE LAWYERS, WHEN THEY
WERE EARLIER THIS WEEK WHEN THE
KICK THINGS OFF ON TUESDAY.
JAMES, WHAT DOES THAT TELL US
ABOUT HOW SENATORS ARE REACTING?
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE SOME SENATORS WHO
ARE GENUINELY IN PLAY. THE
REPUBLICANS DON'T WANT TO VOTE
TO CONVICT TRUMP. THERE REALLY
IS NO ONE, EVEN SOMEONE LIKE
MITT ROMNEY WHO HAS BEEN AN
ARDENT CRITIC OF TRUMP, VOTED TO
CONVICT HIM LAST TIME, HE DID IT
WITH A VERY HEAVY HEART AND
AFTER A LOT OF PRAYER
AUTHENTICALLY. HE REALLY DOESN'T
WANT TO HAVE THIS KIND OF RECORD
OF BREAKING WITH TRUMP. I EXPECT
ULTIMATELY HE IS GOING TO DO SO
BUT THERE IS A BUNCH OF OTHERS
IN THIS GROUP, YOU KNOW, HALF A
DOZEN WHO WANT A REASON. THEY
ARE DESPERATE FOR A REASON TO
VOTE NOT TO CONVICT. THEY ARE
LISTENING CLOSELY AND SQUINTING
TO COME UP WITH SOME
JUSTIFICATION SO THAT THEY CAN
NOT VOTE TO CONVICT TRUMP. WE
SHOULD NOT ASSUME THAT THOSE
HALF A DOZEN SENATORS WHO VOTED
TO PROCEED WITH THE CONSTITUTION
AND CONSTITUTIONALITY OF THE
TRIAL ARE GOING TO VOTE TO
CONVICT. THEY ARE VERY MUCH UP
FOR GRABS. I THINK THAT THERE
ARE OTHER REPUBLICANS WHO FELT
LIKE THE DEMOCRATIC CASE WAS
COMPELLING AND ACTUALLY ARE SORT
OF GENUINELY PAYING ATTENTION TO
SEE WHAT THE RESPONSE IS. WE ARE
PAYING CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE
FOUR REPUBLICAN SENATORS WHO
ANNOUNCED THEY ARE RETIRING NEXT
YEAR SO THEY ARE NOT GOING TO
HAVE TO BEAT VOTERS AGAIN. ROB
PORTMAN IN OHIO, PAT TOOMEY IN
PENNSYLVANIA, RICHARD BURR IN
NORTH CAROLINA AND DICK SHELBY
IN ALABAMA. THEY DON'T WANT
THEIR LEGACY TO CONVICT TRUMP
BUT THAT IS WHAT THE SUPREME
COURT PRECEDENTS THAT WERE BEING
THROWN OUT, WHICH WE CAN DISSECT
AND I THINK  IT WAS PRETTY
SHODDY ANALYSIS IS NOT REALLY
APPLICABLE. THOSE KINDS OF
ARGUMENTS COULD POTENTIALLY
OFFER SOME JUSTIFICATION FOR
SOME OF THESE REPUBLICANS ON THE
FENCE TO FALL BACK IN LINE WITH
THE PRESIDENT, FORMER PRESIDENT
AS THEY SO OFTEN HAVE OVER THE
LAST FOUR YEARS.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, WE DID SEE MINORITY
LEADER MITCH McCONNELL HAD BACK
IN AND OFTENTIMES WHEN WE SEE
HIM TAKE THAT WALK FROM HIS
OFFICE THERE OUTSIDE THE SENATE
TAPER DOWN THE HALL, WE KNOW IT
IS ABOUT TIME TO HEAD BACK INTO
THE CHAMBER. LET'S TALK ABOUT
WHAT IS YET TO COME. WE DO
ANTICIPATE HEARING FROM BRUCE
CASTOR YET TODAY. WHAT ELSE WILL
YOU BE LISTENING FOR AS THESE
ARGUMENTS CONTINUE?
&gt;&gt; WE PROBABLY HAD ABOUT AN HOUR
LEFT, MAYBE TWO OF THE DEFENSE
ARGUMENTS. THAT IS WHAT THEY
SAID, THEY WERE ONLY GOING TO
TAKE A QUARTER OF THEIR TIME.
WHEN WE STARTED TODAY'S SHOW, WE
RAN THAT CLIP OF BILL CASSIDY
SAYING HE IS INTERESTED IN THE
DEFENSE TELLING THE SELLERS
WHERE WAS TRUMP AFTER HE LEARNED
THAT SUMMIT AND WAS HAPPENING
WITHIN THE CAPITOL? THAT HE WAS
PREOCCUPIED WITH GETTING TOMMY
TURBERVILLE ON THE PHONE AND
TRYING TO INTERRUPT THE
PROCEEDINGS OF JANUARY 6th
INSTEAD OF HELPING SAVE
LAWMAKERS OR MIKE PENCE. BILL
CASSIDY IS INTERESTED IN THEM
ANSWERING THOSE QUESTIONS. THAT
IS SOMETHING THE IMPACT MANAGERS
ASK THE DEFENSE TOO. EXPLAIN
TRUMP'S CONDUCT WHILE THE ATTACK
ON THE CAPITOL WAS HAPPENING.
THEY HAVE NOT YET TALKED ABOUT
TRUMP'S CONDUCT. I AM INTERESTED
TO SEE IF THEY WILL ADDRESS IT
AT ALL AND IF THEY DO, HOW WILL
THEY ADDRESS THAT?
&gt;&gt; JAMES, WE HEARD THE TEAM, AS
RHONDA MENTIONED, LAYOUT THEY
WOULD ONLY BE TAKING THREE HOURS
OF THIS. THE NEXT PHASE WOULD BE
GOING INTO THE QUESTION.. WE ARE
TWISTED TO SEE
WHAT THE FLOW WOULD BE AND IF
THEY GET INTO THAT TODAY,
PICKING UP THE PACE MOVING
FORWARD TO THE NEXT STEPS OF
THIS PROCESS REMAINS TO BE SEEN.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I THINK SOME OF THAT
DEPENDS ON WHETHER THE DEFENSE
TEAM GOES ANOTHER ONE HOUR OR
TWO HOURS. IF THEY ONLY GO AN
HOUR AND THIS IS GOING TO BE
DAVID SCHOEN'S ARGUMENT, THEY
COULD HAVE ANOTHER RECESS AND GO
RIGHT INTO QUESTIONS . KAREN
DOES POINT, IF THE TRUMP DEFENSE
TEAM DOESN'T USE THEIR TIME TO
ADDRESS THAT QUESTION OF WHY DID
TRUMP WAIT SO LONG TO SEND HELP,
WHAT HE REALLY REVELING? IF THEY
DIDN'T DENY THAT HE WAS
REVELING, ALL THEY DID WAS SAY
THAT WE CAN'T TRUST PRESS
REPORTS BASED ON SOURCES ABOUT
WHAT WAS THE PRESIDENT'S
MINDSET. THEY DIDN'T SAY IT
WASN'T TRUE. YOU WOULD EXPECT
THAT SOME SENATORS, POTENTIALLY
THE PEOPLE ON THE FENCE I WAS
TALKING ABOUT, BUT ASK WRITTEN
QUESTIONS FOR THE DEFENSE
LAWYERS THAT FOLLOW UP ON THAT,
PERHAPS THAT FOLLOW UP ON THOSE
FOUR QUESTIONS THAT JEANNIE
RASKIN POST AT THE END OF THE
DAY YESTERDAY. IF THERE IS ONLY
ONE HOUR OF  DEFENSE ARGUMENT, I
THINK WE WOULD GET INTO THE
QUESTIONS. IF IT GOES LONGER, A
LOT OF TIMES LAWYERS TALK MORE
TIME. THE THICK OF IT, THEN THEY
WILL AT
UP HAVING AN EARLIER DAY TODAY.
IT REMAINS TO BE SEEN AND I
THINK IN SOME PART, IN LARGE
PART, IT DEPENDS ON HOW LONG
DAVID SCHOEN  CHOOSES TO SPEAK
FOR.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT. AS THEY LAID IT OUT,
THOUGH, THEY TALKED ABOUT BRUCE
CASTOR NEXT TALKING ABOUT THE
LAW AS IT APPLIES TO THE SPEECH
ON JANUARY 6th AND WE WILL SEE
IF THERE IS ANY SUMMATION OR
ANYTHING AFTER THAT. WE ARE ALL
WATCHING AND WONDERING IF BRUCE
CASTOR WOULD SPEAK. THE
REPORTING WAS DONALD TRUMP WAS
VERY DISPLEASED WITH HIS
PERFORMANCE EARLIER THIS WEEK.
LET'S ZOOM OUT FOR A MOMENT AND
LOOK AT THE BIG PICTURE OF WHAT
IS COMING UP. AFTER WE GET
THROUGH THIS PROCESS, WE DO HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY FOR THOSE
QUESTIONS. AFTER THAT PHASE,
THEY CAN CONSIDER AND VOTE
WHETHER TO CALL WITNESSES. THEN
WE WILL HEAR THE CLOSING
ARGUMENTS, WHICH WILL AGAIN BE
EQUALLY DIVIDED BETWEEN THE
HAVES IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AND
TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS. FINALLY, THE
SENATE WILL DELIBERATE AND VOTE
ON CONVICTION. REMINDER, YOU
NEED THE 67 VOTES TO CONVICT.
JAMES, ANY DECISION THIS COULD
WRAP UP TOMORROW?
&gt;&gt; BOTH SIDES WANT TO GET THIS
DONE, FRANKLY. THERE IS A DESIRE
TO SEE WITNESSES, AS OUR
COLLEAGUE RUSS HALDEMAN SAID
EARLIER. DEMOCRATS WANT TO MOVE
ON TO ADVANCE PRESIDENT BIDEN'S
AGENDA, THE BEST ONE AT NINE $20
PACKAGE NEXT WEEK. REPUBLICANS
OBVIOUSLY SQUIRMING I DON'T WANT
TO CONTINUE TO TALK ABOUT DONALD
TRUMP. THEY WANT TO MOVE ON AND
SO I DON'T THINK WE ARE GOING TO
GET WITNESSES AND I DON'T KNOW
HOW MANY QUESTIONS WE ARE GOING
TO GET. FEELS LIKE IT MAY NOT BE
THAT MANY. CERTAINLY IT WILL BE
FEWER THAN DOING THE UKRAINE
IMPEACHMENT LAST YEAR. THERE IS
TOTALLY A SCENARIO WHERE THIS IS
DONE TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, YOU KNOW, JAMES HAS
BROUGHT UP WITNESSES. PART OF
THE JUSTIFICATION OF GOING
THROUGH THIS PROCESS IS TO
PRESERVE THIS FOR POSTERITY AND
TO GET EVERYTHING ON THE RECORD
AND DOCUMENTED. I HAVE TO BE
DEVIL'S ADVOCATE AND ASK WHY NOT
THEN GET WITNESSES AS PART OF
THIS MOMENT, RHONDA?
&gt;&gt; THE WINE THAT IS REALLY
POLITICALLY BASED. THIS IS A
FUNCTION OF POLITICS HERE ON THE
HILL AND IMPEACHMENT IS. ADDING
WITNESSES WITH AT TIME,
ESSENTIALLY, TO THE SCHEDULE OF
SENATORS. AS JAMES JUST POINTED
OUT, BOTH SIDES REALLY WANT TO
MOVE ON. DEMOCRATS WANT TO MOVE
ON BECAUSE YOU STILL HAVE
BIDEN'S AGENDA SORT OF WAITING
IN THE WINGS HERE. THEY HAD TO
PUT IT ON PAUSE ON THE SENATE
SIDE. THE HOST SITE DID MARKUP
HIS $1.9 TRILLION COVID-19 PLAN,
THE NEXT RELIEF PACKAGE. THEY
ARE WORKING ON THAT AND TRYING
TO GET TO THE FLOOR. THERE ARE
STILL A HANDFUL OF CONFIRMATIONS
THAT THEY HAVE TO GO THROUGH IN
THE NEXT FEW WEEKS TO
GET SOME OF BIDEN'S CABINET
ESTABLISHED. SO THERE IS SORT OF
A LET'S WRAP THIS UP SPIRIT THAT
WOULD PROBABLY BE THE MAIN
REASON THEY WOULDN'T WANT TO
PROLONG THIS BY CALLING
WITNESSES. I NEVER SAY ANYTHING
IS OUT.
WE VERY WELL COULD SEE THEM
DECIDE TO VOTE TO ADD WITNESSES.
IT IS LOOKING UNLIKELY AT THIS
POINT. HOWEVER, I THINK BOTH
SITES KIND OF WANT TO MOVE ON
WITH THIS AND I THINK WHAT WE
ARE ALL WATCHING AFTER THAT IS,
WHAT DO THEY DO NEXT WITH THIS?
I GOT AN EMAIL FROM A VIEWER WHO
IS WONDERING WHAT DID HE DO IF
THE REPUBLICANS DON'T WANT TO
CONVICT? IS THERE ANYTHING THEY
HAVE PUT FORWARD TO HOLD
ACCOUNTABLE FOR JANUARY 6th? FOR
MY KNOWLEDGE, NO ONE HAS REALLY
SET ANY OTHER MEASURES. THERE
WAS THE ATTEMPT TO POTENTIALLY
CENSURE
, BOTH MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE AND
ALSO THE SENATE WHO MADE
DIFFERENT SUGGESTIONS ABOUT
JANUARY 6th AND
TRIED TO CENSOR HIM. THOSE
MEASURES HAVE REALLY NOT TAKEN
OFF. AFTER THIS
, WE ARE REALLY WONDERING WHAT
IS GOING TO HAPPEN. IS THIS
COMPLETELY DROPPED? IS JANUARY
6th TOTALLY LEFT BEHIND AND MOVE
ON? I AM NOT SURE. I GUESS THAT
IS WHAT WE WILL BE WAITING FOR
AND WATCHING FOR IN THE NEXT FEW
DAYS.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS A GREAT QUESTION.
JAMES, IS THERE ANY APPETITE AT
THIS POINT FOR A CENSURE?
&gt;&gt; THERE IS REALLY NOT GET LOST
IN, WE SAW A CLIP FROM ELIZABETH
WARREN AS SHE WAS WALKING OUT OF
THE CAPITOL FOR THE DAY AND ONE
OF THE REPORTERS ASKED IF SHE
WOULD BE OPEN TO CENSURE. IT
SEEMS LIKE YOU WILL NOT HAVE
ENOUGH VOTES TO CONVICT AND SHE
NOTABLY DID NOT ANSWER THE
QUESTION AND CRITICIZED TRUMP.
TIM KAINE WAS PUSHING FOR IT
REALLY HARD. HE HAS PHYSICALLY
SAID
, THE 2016 VICE PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINEE FROM VIRGINIA, HE HAS
BASICALLY SAID IT IS NOT GOING
TO HAPPEN. HE COULDN'T GET
ENOUGH OF AN APPETITE.
INTERESTINGLY, THOUGH, IT COULD
BE SOMETHING A COUPLE OF THE
REPUBLICANS GOT WET. IF WE SEE
MOVEMENT FOR SOME SORT OF
CENSURE VOTE, I EXPECT IT WOULD
COME FROM THE USUAL SUSPECTS,
PROBABLY SOMEONE LIKE SUSAN
COLLINS, WHO WOULD SAY, YOU
KNOW, I WANT TO VOTE TO CENSURE
TRUMP. EVEN REMEMBER ON THE HOST
SITE DURING THE IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS A FEW WEEKS AGO,
KEVIN McCARTHY PUBLICLY FLOATED
DURING HIS SPEECH ON THE FLOOR A
CENSURE RESOLUTION. HE SAID HE
COULD SUPPORT CENSURING TRUMP
FOR HIS ROLE ON JANUARY 6th.
THEY HAVE SORT OF BACKED AWAY
FROM THE
AS THE TROUBLESOME HAS WORKED TO
TRUMP'S ADVANTAGE AND THE PARTY
HAS FALLEN IN LINE. ULTIMATELY,
IT JUST DOESN'T SEEM LIKE WE ARE
GOING TO GO THERE. I WOULD NOT
BE SURPRISED TO SEE SOME
REPUBLICANS SORT OF FLOAT THAT
IN THE COMING HOURS AS A WAY TO
GIVE THEMSELVES A LITTLE BIT OF
AN ART.
&gt;&gt; IT MIGHT TAKE THE PRESSURE OF
THEM, AT LEAST FOR THE MOMENT ON
HOW THEY VOTE OVER THE NEXT 24
TO 48 HOURS, JAMES.AS WE
PREPARED TO HEAD BACK, WE WERE
GIVEN THE SENSE, JAMES, THERE
WOULD BE A COUPLE OF SMALL PICS
EVERY TWO HOURS OR SO,
POTENTIALLY A DINNER BREAK. THE
POTENTIAL TO PUSH ON TONIGHT
WITH THE QUESTIONS ONE WAIT AND
KICK THAT OFF IN TOMORROW. THE
QUESTIONS ARE WRITTEN OUT. THIS
IS SO UNUSUAL NOT TO BE ABLE TO
HEAR THE SENATORS IN THEIR OWN
FORCES HAVE THE FLOOR. THAT
WRITING PROCESS, AS WE REMEMBER
FROM LAST YEAR, SENATORS CAN
TEAM TOGETHER AND YOU WRITE AND
SUBMIT A QUESTION, ASK A
QUESTION ON BEHALF OF A HANDFUL
OF THEM, WHICH MAKES IT MORE
EFFICIENT. IT ALSO GIVES US SOME
INSIGHT INTO WHO IS THINKING
ABOUT WHAT, RIGHT? WHAT
ALLEGIANCES ARE BEING FORMED IN
POLITICAL STRIPES AND BANDWIDTH,
JAMES.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY. THAT IS ONE OF
THE THINGS THAT IS EXCITING. IF
YOU LET THE SENATORS STAND UP TO
ASK HER QUESTIONS, WHICH WOULD
HAVE A LOT OF GRANDSTANDING AND
THE QUESTION AND ANSWER TIME
WOULD LAST A LOT LONGER THAN IT
IS IF THEY ARE WRITTEN
QUESTIONS. TWO, YOU ARE TOTALLY
RIGHT. WHAT WAS ON LESSER DURING
THE UKRAINE IMPEACHMENT WAS
THERE WERE SOME OF THE SENATORS
WHO WERE ON THE FENCE THAT YOU
SAW PEOPLE WHO WERE TRUMP WAIT
LISTS SIDLING UP TO THEM AND
PARTNERING WITH THEM ON
QUESTIONS AND TRYING TO DO IT IN
A WAY TO KIND OF BRING THEM HOME
TO TRUMP. IT WOULD BE
INTERESTING TO SEE IF YOU THE
QUESTIONS WHERE YOU KIND OF HAVE
SOME MORE CONSERVATIVE SENATORS,
TO TRUMP THE LIGHT SENATORS AND
WITH PEOPLE LIKE MURKOWSKI AND
JOINTLY OFFER THE QUESTION.
COULD BE A WINDOW INTO WHERE
SOMEONE LIKE BILL CASSIDY IS
GOING. WE HEARD FROM HIM RIGHT
BEFORE THE START OF THE TRIAL
TODAY WHERE HE SAID HE REALLY
DOES STILL HAVE AN OPEN MIND.
PERHAPS HE HAS MADE UP HIS MIND
AND HE IS JUST SAYING THAT. A
QUESTION COULD BE A WINDOW INTO
IF HE ACTUALLY THEORIES ABOUT?
THE OTHER THING THAT COULD
HAPPEN, THE B, THERE COULD BE
SOME REPUBLICANS WHO WANT TO
GENTLY SHOW THEIR CRITIQUE OF OR
DISDAIN FOR TRUMP BUT DON'T WANT
TO VOTE TO CONVICT HIM AND SORT
OF CENSURE, ASKING A TOUGH
QUESTION WOULD BE LIKE A WAY FOR
THEM TO SIGNAL THEY ARE UNEASY
WITH BUT TRUMPETED ON JANUARY
6th. YOU COULD ALSO SEE SOME OF
THE REPUBLICANS ASKING TOUGH
QUESTIONS OF THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, YOU KNOW,
IN A WAY THAT SEEMS DESIGNED TO
KIND OF GIVE THEM AN OUT TO LOOK
FOR REASONS TO JUSTIFY VOTING
NOT TO CONVICT TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; "THE WASHINGTON POST" TRIGGER
IS HARD AT WORK FACT CHECKING
THESE ARGUMENT. JAMES, I WANT
POINT OUT ONE THAT THEY ARE
TACKLING, FOR THAT WE HAVE SEEN
PLAYED NUMEROUS TIMES OF CHUCK
SCHUMER, THE MAJORITY LEADER
TALKING ABOUT A WHIRLWIND BEING
UNLEASHED ON JUSTICES OF THE
SUPREME COURT. A POINT THAT THE
FACT IS MAKE IS THAT SCHUMER
APOLOGIZED THE NEXT DAY ON THE
SENATE FLOOR, IN FACT NOT JUST
INFORMALLY OVERDREW BUT DID ON
THE SENATE FLOOR AND SAID HE
SPOKE AND THERE WAS AN
ADMONISHMENT THAT HAPPENED AFTER
THAT. WE HAVE SORT OF SEEN
CONSEQUENCES. LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE ISSUE OF INFLAMMATORY SPEECH
AND THEN WHAT HAPPENS NEXT,
WHETHER OR NOT SOMEONE IS
REMORSEFUL TRIES TO CHANGE TONE.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS STRIKING IN THAT
VIDEO, AGAIN, WHICH YOU POINTED
OUT LIBBY, THEY PLAYED A LOT OF
THOSE CLIPS SEVEN TIMES. I WAS
STRUCK BY HOW MANY THINGS WERE
DONE THAT WERE WIDELY CONDEMNED
AT THE TIME.
YOU SAW MAXINE WATERS, WHO MADE
THE COMMENT ABOUT GETTING IN
PEOPLE'S FACES. A LOT OF
DEMOCRATS CRITICIZED THAT WHEN
SHE SAID IT. WHAT WAS
INTERESTING WAS WHEN YOU SAW
TRUMP'S DEFENSE LAWYERS
CRITICIZE JAMIE RASKIN AND OTHER
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS FOR
OBJECTING TO THE ELECTION
RESULTS FOUR YEARS AGO, THEY ARE
IN THAT VIDEO PLAYING JOE BIDEN,
WHO WAS THEN VICE PRESIDENT,
GAVILAN THEM DOWN AND TELLING
THEM THEY WERE OUT OF ORDER AND
NOT LETTING THEM DELIVER
LONG-WINDED SPEECHES BECAUSE
THEY DIDN'T HAVE SENATORS WHO
WERE JOINING THEIR OBJECTIONS.
SEVERAL OF THE CLIPS WERE TV
PERSONALITIES. ONE WAS A
MICHIGAN STATE REPRESENTATIVE.
THESE AREN'T EVEN MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, LET ALONE THE SENATE.
A LOT OF TIMES, WHEN THEY WERE
MAKING THESE KINDS OF OUTRAGEOUS
CLAIMS, THEY DID APOLOGIZE OR
THEY WERE DISTANCED
, THEY SAW POLITICIANS DISTANCED
THEMSELVES. SCHUMER, AS YOU
NOTE, THAT WAS A BIG DEAL AT THE
TIME
BUT HE REALLY WAS VERY CONTRITE
ABOUT IT AND ALSO, IN ADDITION
TO THE FLOOR SPEECH, PERSONALLY
REACHED OUT TO THE JUSTICES TO
APOLOGIZE. THAT IS A KEY
DISTINCTION. IT GETS TO A
CENTRAL PART OF THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS CASE
LAW WHICH IS THE DEFENSE TEAM
HASN'T ADDRESSED, PERHAPS THEY
WILL THIS AFTERNOON, WHICH IS
WHY HE HASN'T SHOWN ANY
CONTRITION AT ALL, ANY REMORSE
FOR PUTTING HIS SUPPORTERS IN
SUCH A SPACE WHERE THEY COULD GO
TO SOMETHING LIKE THIS
?
&gt;&gt; WANT TO CALL THEM, I WANT TO
SHARE WITH YOU OUR COLLEAGUES
ARE REPORTING THAT THE POST THAT
SENATOR MITT ROMNEY IS TELLING
REPORTERS HE HAS DRAFTED FIVE
QUESTIONS. HE PLANS TO POSE AND
HAS NOT COORDINATED WITH
COLLEAGUES ON THEM AT THIS
POINT. LET'S CIRCLE BACK THOUGH
TO AN IMPORTANT CHANGE WAS
MAKING. THE FOOTAGE WE SAW OF
HOUSE DEMOCRATS TRYING TO OBJECT
TO THE CERTIFICATION OF DONALD
TRUMP'S ELECTION, SOME OF THEM,
JAMIE RASKIN, VERY PROMINENT IN
THIS PROCESS
, BUT WE ALSO SAW THE FOOTAGE OF
JOE BIDEN STOPPING IT. JOE
BIDEN, THEN VICE PRESIDENT,
VERY DISAPPOINTED WITH THE
ELECTION RESULTS BECAUSE HE
WANTED HILLARY CLINTON TO WIN,
JUST SHUTTING IT DOWN, DOING THE
PROCEDURAL THING EVERYONE
EXPECTED MIKE PENCE TO DO THIS
TIME AROUND AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; THERE NEEDS TO BE SOME ADDED
CONTEXT TO THOSE VIDEOS TOO. I
DID SOME REPORTING ON THE
JANUARY 6th PROCESS WILL BEFORE
THE ACTUAL DATE OF JANUARY 6th
TO GIVE PEOPLE AN IDEA OF WHAT
THAT IS CONSTITUTIONALLY, WHY IT
HAPPENS. TYPICALLY IT IS AN
EVENT THAT A LOT OF SENATORS
DON'T EVEN GO TO BECAUSE IT IS
USUALLY JUST MORE ABOUT CEREMONY
WHERE THE CURRENT VICE PRESIDENT
COMES IN, HE OVERSEES THE
PROCESS BUT NO HOUSE MANAGERS
OFTEN DO OBJECT. THEY KNOW THEY
DON'T HAVE A SENATOR JOINED THEM
BUT THEY WILL FOR THEIR OWN
POLITICS GET UP AND SAY THEY
OBJECT.
&gt;&gt; HOUSE MEMBERS, RONDO. HOUSE
MEMBERS OF ALL KINDS.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT. YES. THEY USUALLY
OBJECT. GOING BACK MANY YEARS,
MANY JANUARY 6th DATES, THEY
USUALLY OBJECT AND DON'T HAVE A
SENATOR TO SIGN ON TO THAT
OBJECTION, WHICH WOULD BE THE
EFFECT THAT STALLS THE
CERTIFICATION PROCESS, WHICH IS
WHAT HAPPENED THIS TIME AROUND.
THAT HAS ONLY HAPPENED TWICE IN
HISTORY BEFORE THIS LAST JANUARY
6th. THIS LAW HAS BEEN, THIS HAS
BEEN A PART OF THE CONSTITUTION
SINCE THE LATE 1800S. IT HAS
ONLY HAPPENED TWICE UNTIL THIS
JANUARY 6th. THAT WAS SOMETHING
THAT THE DEFENSE TEAM DID NOT
REALLY POINT OUT IS THAT THESE
HOUSE MEMBERS WHO DID OBJECT IN
THE PAST,  RASKIN, OTHERS , IT
IS KIND OF COMMON PRACTICE AND
IT REALLY NEVER LEADS TO
ANYTHING. WHAT WAS DIFFERENT
ABOUT THIS JANUARY 6th IF YOU
HAD SENATORS WHO JOINED HOUSE
MEMBERS OBJECTIONS MISSPELLED
THE CERTIFICATION PROCESS
MULTIPLE TIMES, AND THAT WAS THE
DIFFERENCE THERE. THEY DID POINT
OUT THAT JAMIE RASKIN DID THIS
BEFORE. I AM NOT BLAMING WHY. I
THINK WE ARE BACK.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS WILL TAKE THEIR
SEATS.
WHO SEEKS RECOGNITION?
MR. CASTOR IS RECOGNIZED.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, MEMBERS OF THE
SENATE, GOOD AFTERNOON. IT HAS
BEEN MY GREAT PRIVILEGE OVER THE
PAST COUPLE OF WEEKS TO LEAD
THIS OUTSTANDING TEAM OF LAWYERS
AND DEDICATED PROFESSIONALS IN
THE DEFENSE OF THE 45th
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
ONE OF THE MOST DIFFICULT THINGS
IN LEADING SUCH A TALENTED GROUP
IS DECIDING WHO IS RESPONSIBLE
FOR WHAT AND THE STRATEGY AND
THE ORDER IN WHICH WE WILL
PRESENT OUR EVIDENCE. YOU HAVE
HEARD FROM MR. VAN DER VEEN  AND
MR. SCHOEN  ON THE IMPORTANCE OF
THE FIRST AMENDMENT AND THE
IMPORTANCE OF DUE PROCESS OF
LAW. BECAUSE I HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SET UP THE
SCHEDULE, I DECIDED I WOULD TAKE
THE LAST SUBSTANTIVE PART OF THE
CASE FOR MYSELF. YOU CAN TAKE
THAT TWO WAYS. THE FIRST,
PERHAPS, IS THE BEST AND THAT
WOULD BE THAT IT IS ALMOST OVER.
THE SECOND IS THAT, PERHAPS YOU
HAVE TO WAIT ANOTHER HOUR FOR IT
TO BE OVER.
THE REASON WHY I CHOSE THIS
SECTION, AND BELIEVE ME, IT WAS
A VERY DIFFICULT DECISION TO
MAKE BECAUSE I THOUGHT THAT THE
OTHER ARGUMENTS PRESENTED BY MR.
SCHOEN AND MR. VAN DER VEEN WERE
OUTSTANDINGLY RESEARCHED, THE
REALLY  VETTED AND WONDERFULLY
AND ARTICULATELY PRESENTED BY
THEM, BUT
THIS CASE IS THE
VERY NARROW ISSUE THAT IS
CHARGED AGAINST THE 45th
PRESIDENT. THAT ISSUE IS
COMMITTED TO THE 45th PRESIDENT
ENGAGED IN INCITEMENT OF, THEY
CONTINUE TO SAY, INSURRECTION.
CLEARLY THERE WAS NO
INSURRECTION. INSURRECTION IS A
TERM DEFINED IN THE LAW THAT
INVOLVES TAKING OVER A COUNTRY,
A SHADOW GOVERNMENT, TAKING THE
TV STATIONS OVER AND HAVING SOME
PLAN ON WHAT YOU ARE GOING TO DO
WHEN YOU FINALLY TAKE POWER.
CLEARLY THIS IS NOT THAT. WITH
OUR COLLEAGUES HERE ACROSS THE
AISLE MEANT IS INCITEMENT TO
VIOLENCE, TO WRITE IT. THE WORD
INCITEMENT IS THE CRITICAL CASE
AND THE CRITICAL ISSUE IN THE
CASE. THE FIRST TIME YOU HEARD
FROM US, I TOLD YOU THAT YOU
WOULD NEVER HEAR FROM OUR SIDE
THAT WHAT HAPPENED ON JANUARY
6th WAS ANYTHING OTHER THAN
HORRIFIC. THE 44th PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES AND HIS
LAWYERS AND HIS ENTIRE TEAM
ADAMANTLY DENIES
THAT VIOLENCE BY THOSE CRIMINALS
THAT OCCURRED IN THIS VERY
CHAMBER, IN THIS VERY BUILDING.
THERE WAS A REASON WHY WE
STARTED OUR PRESENTATION ON
TUESDAY IN THAT WAY.
BECAUSE I DID NOT WANT THE
SENATORS TO CONSIDER THAT THERE
WAS ANY CHALLENGE TO THAT
PARTICULAR FACT.
MANAGERS, KNOWING IT WAS NOT
CONTESTED AT ALL, CHOSE
14+ HOURS
SHOWING YOU PICTURES OF HOW
HORRIFIC THE ATTACK ON THE
UNITED STATES CAPITOL WAS. THEY
SPEND NO TIME AT ALL IN
CONNECTING, LEGALLY, THE ATTACK
ON THE CAPITOL TO
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
WHICH IS THE ONLY QUESTION THAT
NEEDS TO BE ANSWERED. WAS DONALD
TRUMP RESPONSIBLE FOR INCITING
THE VIOLENCE THAT CAME TO THIS
BUILDING ON JANUARY 6th.
NOW, BY ANY MEASURE, PRESIDENT
TRUMP IS THE MOST
ANTI-MARTIN WILL PRESIDENT THIS
COUNTRY HAS EVER SEEN. HIS REAL
SUPPORTERS KNOW THIS. HE MADE IT
CLEAR THROUGHOUT HIS PRESIDENCY.
HE MADE IT CLEAR DURING THE
VIOLENCE THIS PAST SUMMER. HE
MADE IT CLEAR ON JANUARY 6th.
BUT POLITICS CHANGES THINGS.
POLITICS HAS CREATED AND
INTERPOSED
ELEMENT THAT SHOULD NOT BE HERE.
IT HAS BEEN TO POST THE ELEMENT
OF HATRED. THE POLITICAL WORLD
CHANGES WHEN HATRED BECOMES PART
OF THE DYNAMIC.
AS WE WROTE IN OUR ANSWER TO THE
ORIGINAL CHARGING DOCUMENT
, AND I HOPE THAT THIS IS A
PHRASE THAT LIVES ON LONG AFTER
WE ARE ALL DEPARTED AND THAT I
HOPE SOMEDAY THIS BECOMES THE
MANTRA BY WHICH ALL OF US
OPERATE
OF THE PUBLIC. POLITICAL HATRED
HAS NO PLACE IN THE AMERICAN
JUSTICE SYSTEM AND MOST
CERTAINLY NO PLACE IN THE
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
TO ILLUSTRATE THE CONTRAST THAT
I AM SPEAKING OF, WE HAVE A
VIDEO.
&gt;&gt; I AM YOUR PRESIDENT OF LAW
AND ORDER AND AN ALLY OF ALL
PEACEFUL PROTESTERS.
&gt;&gt; THE VAST MAJORITY OF THE
PROTEST HAS BEEN PEACEFUL.
&gt;&gt; REPUBLICANS STAND FOR LAW AND
ORDER AND WE STAND FOR JUSTICE.
&gt;&gt; I DON'T EVEN KNOW
WHY THERE AREN'T UPRISINGS ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY. MAYBE THERE
WILL BE.
&gt;&gt; MY ADMINISTRATOR AND WILL
ALWAYS STAND AGAINST VIOLENCE,
MAYHEM, AND DISORDER.
&gt;&gt; THERE NEEDS TO BE UNREST IN
THE STREET FOR AS LONG AS THERE
IS UNREST IN OUR LIVES.
&gt;&gt; I STAND FOR THE HEROES OF LAW
AND ORDER. WE WILL NEVER
DEFINED OUR POLICE. TOGETHER, WE
WILL ENSURE AMERICA IS A NATION
OF LAW AND ORDER.
&gt;&gt; I THINK YOU NEED TO GO BACK
AND PUNCH HIM IN THE FACE.
&gt;&gt; WE JUST WANT LAW AND ORDER.
EVERYBODY WANTS THAT.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO TELL YOU, YOU HAVE
RELEASED THE WHIRLWIND AND YOU
WILL PAY THE PRICE.
&gt;&gt; WE WANT LAW AND ORDER. WE
HAVE TO HAVE LAW AND ORDER.
&gt;&gt; SHOW ME WHERE IT SAYS PROTEST
ARE SUPPOSED TO BE POLITE AND
PEACEFUL?
&gt;&gt; WE BELIEVE IN SAFE, SECURE
COMMUNITIES. WE BELIEVE IN LAW
AND ORDER.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE TRULY ANYONE IN THIS
CHAMBER WHO DISAGREES WITH THE
WORDS AS A SPOKEN BY RESIDENT
TRUMP ON THAT VIDEO? SURELY NOT.
SURELY NOT. THIS CONTRAST AND IN
THIS CONTEXT
IT IN MIND. MY COLLEAGUES HERE,
ACTUALLY MY
RASKIN HOPES THAT YOU DON'T .
THEY HAVE USED
SELECTIVE EDITING, MANIPULATED
VISUALS TO PAINT A PICTURE FAR
DIFFERENT FROM THIS TRUTH
. MAKE NO MISTAKE, AND I WILL
REPEAT IT NOW AND ANYTIME I AM
EVER ASKED FOR JANUARY 6th WAS A
TERRIBLE DAY FOR OUR COUNTRY.
THE ATTACK ON THIS BUILDING
SHOCKED US ALL.
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID NOT INCITE
OR CAUSE THE HORRIFIC VIOLENCE
THAT OCCURRED ON JANUARY 6th,
2021. THEY KNOW THAT.
THE PRESIDENT DID NOT INCITE A
RIOT BECAUSE OF HIS PLAIN WORDS
THAT DAY, AS MR. VAN DER VEEN
ELUCIDATED ON A FEW MOMENTS AGO.
WE KNOW THE PRESIDENT COULD NOT
HAVE INCITED THE RIOTS BECAUSE
OF THE TIMELINE OF THE EVENTS OF
THAT DAY. WE HEARD A GREAT DEAL
FROM THE HOUSE MANAGERS ABOUT
THEIR PROSECUTORIAL BONA FIDES
AND THEIR ABILITY TO ANALYZE
THE EVIDENCE, APPLIED TO
STATUTES, USE TIMELINES AND TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT HAPPENED BASED
ON CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE AND
DIRECT EVIDENCE AND TESTIMONY
AND FORENSIC ANALYSIS. I CAN'T
RECALL ANY OF THE HOUSE MANAGERS
WHO GOT UP THAT DIDN'T MAKE
REFERENCE TO PROSECUTORIAL BONA
FIDES. I SPENT MORE THAN THREE
DECADES LOCKING UP KILLERS
. I DO KNOW A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
APPLYING THE FACTS TO THE LAW.
WE KNOW THAT THE PRESIDENT WOULD
NEVER HAVE WANTED SUCH A RIOT TO
OCCUR BECAUSE HIS LONG-STANDING
HATRED FOR VIOLENT PROTESTERS
AND HIS LOVE FOR LAW AND ORDER
IS ON DISPLAY, WORN ON HIS
SLEEVE EVERY SINGLE DAY THAT HE
SERVED IN THE WHITE HOUSE. BUT
IF WE ARE GOING TO APPLY THE
FACTS TO THE STATUTE
BE DONE SYSTEMATICALLY. IT HAS
TO BE DONE WITH PRECISION
THE WAY A COURT WOULD EXPECT US
TO DO THAT. LET'S LOOK AT THE
LETTER OF THE LAW. AGAIN,
MR. VAN DER VEEN GIVES YOU AN
OVERVIEW OF THE BRANDENBURG CASE
AND SOME OF THE RELATED CASES.
HE NOTED THAT  WHEN MR. VAN DER
VEEN  LIST AT THE ELEMENTS THAT
HE TOOK VERBATIM OR CLOSE TO
VERBATIM OUT OF VANDERBURGH,
THEY TOOK NO
RELEVANCE TO WHAT THE DEMOCRATIC
MANAGERS BROUGHT UP REPEATEDLY.
HE ACTUALLY USED THE SUPREME
COURT CASE. HE DIDN'T MAKE IT
UP. LET'S LOOK AT THE LETTER OF
THE LAW. THE SUPREME COURT OF
THE UNITED STATES OVER 50 YEARS
AGO LAID OUT A CLEAR TEST TO
DETERMINE WHETHER SPEECH IS
INCITEMENT.
UNDER THAT TEST, THE BRANDENBURG
VERSUS OHIO TEST, THERE ARE
THREE ELEMENTS THAT MUST BE
PROVEN BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT
, BY A PREPONDERANCE OF THE
EVIDENCE, BUT IF THE SENATE
CONSIDERS I SUGGEST BEYOND A
REASONABLE DOUBT. FIRST, THE
SPEECH IN QUESTION MUST
EXPLICITLY OR IMPLICITLY
ENCOURAGE THE USE OF VIOLENCE OR
LAWLESS ACTION. HERE, THE
PRESIDENT'S SPEECH CALLED FOR
PEACEFUL PROTEST. SECOND THE
SPEAKER MUST INTEND THAT HIS
SPEECH WILL RESULT IN THE USE OF
VIOLENCE OR LAWLESS ACTION.
AGAIN, AS MR. VAN DER VEEN
POINTED OUT, THE PRESIDENT
CLEARLY DEPLORES RIOTERS AND
POLITICAL VIOLENCE AND DID SO
THROUGHOUT HIS TERM AS PRESIDENT
AND NEVER HESITATED TO
EXPRESS HIS ADMIRATION FOR THE
MEN AND WOMEN THAT PROTECT THIS
COUNTRY. FINALLY, THE THIRD
ELEMENT UNDER THE BRANDENBURG
TEST IS THE IMMINENT USE OF
VIOLENCE, IMMINENT USE OF
VIOLENCE, IN OTHER WORDS, RIGHT
THEN. THE IMMINENT USE OF
VIOLENCE OR LAWLESS ACTION MUST
BE THE LIKELY RESULT OF THE
SPEECH. THE LIKELY RESULT OF THE
SPEECH. THAT ARGUMENT IS
COMPLETELY EVISCERATED BY THE
FACT THAT THE VIOLENCE WAS
PREPLANNED, AS CONFIRMED BY THE
FBI, THE APARTMENT JUSTICE, AND
EVEN THE HOUSE MANAGERS, NOT THE
RESULT OF THE SPEECH AT ALL.
SEVERAL OF MY COLLEAGUES
GOT UP AND SPOKE ABOUT THE
PROCEEDINGS IN THE HOUSE BEING
LIKE A GRAND JURY PROCEEDING.
WELL, I HAVE BEEN IN GRAND JURY
PROCEEDINGS. I HAVE RUN GRAND
JURIES. IN GRAND JURY
PROCEEDINGS, TO CALL WITNESSES.
YOU HEAR EVIDENCE. YOU MAKE
TRANSCRIPTS. YOU TAKE AFFIDAVITS
YOU DEVELOP PHYSICAL EVIDENCE.
YOU HEAR REPORTS FROM POLICE
OFFICERS, TO HEAR FORENSIC
ANALYSIS FROM SCIENTISTS. IN
FACT, YOU INVITE THE TARGET OF
THE GRAND JURY TO COME IN AND
TESTIFY IF HE OR SHE PLACES TO
BE HEARD BY THE GRAND JURY.
WHICH ONE OF THOSE THINGS
HAPPENED IN THE HOUSE PRIOR TO
THE IMPEACHMENT ARTICLE?
I DON'T BELIEVE ANY OF THEM
HAPPENED. THE SUGGESTION THAT
WHAT HAPPENED IN THE HOUSE WAS
ANYTHING AT ALL LIKE A GRAND
JURY INVESTIGATING A CASE AND
PERFORMING IT FOR PROSECUTION IS
COMPLETE NONSENSE.
IF THE HOUSE MANAGERS ARE TRYING
TO FOOL YOU ABOUT THAT, YOU MUST
ASK YOURSELF, WHAT ELSE ARE THEY
TRYING TO FOOL YOU ABOUT?
LET'S LOOK MORE CLOSELY AT THE
PRESIDENTS SPEECH.
WE HAVE MENTIONED THIS LINE
BEFORE BUT IT IS SO CRITICAL WE
NEED TO
TALK ABOUT IT AGAIN. THE
PRESIDENT ASKED THAT ATTENDEES
AT HIS RALLY PEACEABLY MAKE
THEIR VOICES HEARD.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW EVERYONE HERE WILL
SOON BE MARCHING OVER TO THE
CAPITOL BUILDING TO PEACEFULLY
AND PATRIOTICALLY MAKE YOUR
VOICES HEARD.
&gt;&gt; AT THE MANAGERS WOULD HAVE
YOU BELIEVE THE PRESIDENT'S
SUPPORTERS USUALLY FOLLOW HIS
EVERY WORD. IN THIS CASE
INCLUDED SOME IMAGINARY MEANING
TO THEM WHILE IGNORING HIS
CLEAR INSTRUCTIONS. PRESIDENT
TRUMP SAID PEACEFULLY AND
PATRIOTICALLY MAKE YOUR VOICES
HEARD AND THE HOUSE MANAGERS
TOOK FROM THAT, GO DOWN TO THE
CAPITOL AND RIOT.
YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO PUT
YOURSELVES IN THE HANDS OF THE
PEOPLE WHO HEAR PEACEFULLY AND
PATRIOTICALLY MAKE YOUR VOICES
HEARD AND CONCLUDE THAT THOSE
WORDS DO NOT MEAN WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID. MORE THAN THAT,
THE PRESIDENT CRITICIZED THE
DESTRUCTION WROUGHT BY LEFT-WING
ANARCHISTS AND RIOTERS. HE TOLD
HIS SUPPORTERS
THAT THEY BUILD, THEY DON'T
DESTROY.
&gt;&gt; IF THIS HAPPENED TO THE
DEMOCRATS, THERE WOULD BE ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY GOING ON. THERE
WOULD BE ALL OVER THE COUNTRY.
JUST REMEMBER THIS, YOU ARE
STRONGER YOU ARE SMARTER, YOU'VE
GOT MORE GOING THAN ANYBODY AND
THEY TRY AND DO YOU MEAN
EVERYBODY HAVING TO DO WITH US
AND YOU ARE THE REAL PEOPLE, YOU
ARE THE PEOPLE THAT BUILT THIS
NATION. YOU ARE NOT THE PEOPLE
THAT TORE DOWN OUR NATION.
&gt;&gt; IS IT POSSIBLE LISTENING TO
THOSE WORDS IN THE PROPER
CADENCE, WITHOUT THEM BEING
EDITED OR THE SOUND CHANGED
SO THAT THEY ARE INDISPENSABLE
OR SOUNDS AS THOUGH THE CROWD IS
RIGHT THERE, BUT LISTENING TO IT
AS YOU HAVE HERE AN EDITED US,
IS IT POSSIBLE THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DISDAIN FOR POLITICAL
VIOLENCE COULD BE ANY CLEARER TO
THE PERSONS LISTENING AS HE WAS
SPEAKING?
IS IT POSSIBLE HIS WORDS COULD
HAVE BEEN MISUNDERSTOOD. I
SUGGEST TO YOU THAT IS
IMPOSSIBLE. NOW
MANAGERS SAID THE PRESIDENT TOLD
THE CROWD
, QUOTE, YOU HAVE TO GET OUT
YOUR PEOPLE TO FIGHT
. THE HOUSE MANAGERS CLAIM IS
THAT THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES WAS TELLING THE AUDIENCE
TO GET EACH OTHER TO PHYSICALLY
FIGHT.
THAT IS NOT WHAT THE PRESIDENT
SAID. THE PEOPLE WHO SHOULD
FIGHT, HE SAID, WHEN MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS. IF THEY DON'T FIGHT,
WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAID, IS WHAT
SHOULD THE RALLY ATTENDEES DO?
IF MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WOULDN'T
FIGHT FOR THE PRINCIPLES THEY
HELD DEAR, WHAT WAS IT THE
PRESIDENT SPECIFICALLY TOLD HIS
SUPPORTERS AT THAT RALLY HE
WANTED THEM TO DO? HE WANTED
THEM TO SUPPORT PRIMARY
CHALLENGES. NOW, NOBODY IN THIS
CHAMBER IS ANXIOUS TO HAVE A
PRIMARY CHALLENGE. THAT IS ONE
TRUISM I THINK I CAN SAY WITH
SOME CERTAINTY. THAT IS THE WAY
WE OPERATE IN THIS COUNTRY. THE
PEOPLE OF A STATE WANT TO CHANGE
THEIR REPRESENTATIVES AND THEIR
SENATORS, THEY USE THE ELECTORAL
PROCESS. PRESIDENT TRUMP TOLD
HIS LISTENERS
THAT IF THEY MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
WON'T FIGHT FOR THEIR VIEWS,
THEN GO BACK HOME AND FIND
OTHERS THAT WILL. THAT IS WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S SAID. THE
PEOPLE WHO SHOULD FIGHT FOR THE
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.
YOU HAVE TO GET YOUR PEOPLE TO
FIGHT.
HE TOLD THEM.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE TO GET YOUR PEOPLE
TO FIGHT. IF THEY DON'T FIGHT,
WE HAVE TWO PRIMARY THE OUT OF
THE ONES THAT DON'T FIGHT. YOU
PRIMARY THEM. WE ARE GOING TO
LET YOU KNOW WHO THEY ARE, I CAN
ALREADY TELL YOU, FRANKLY.
&gt;&gt; IT IS PRETTY STARK CONTRAST
WHEN YOU WATCH THAT VIDEO, ISN'T
IT? WHEN YOU SEE THE HOUSE
MANAGER TELL YOU, AND I DON'T
KNOW IF
WE ARE UNDER OATH HERE BUT WHEN
I WALKED INTO THIS ONE, I SURE
FELT LIKE I WAS UNDER OATH AND I
WAS SPEAKING NOT ONLY TO
SENATORS OF THE UNITED STATES
BUT BEFORE THE ENTIRE WORLD AND
WITH GOD WATCHING.
THE HOUSE MANAGER GOT UP HERE
AND TOLD YOU THAT THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES ON JANUARY
THE SIXTH, 2021 TOLD THE CROWD
THAT THEY HAD TO GO AND FIGHT
AND THE IMPLICATION THAT THEY
WANTED TO DO IT FROM WAS THAT HE
WAS SENDING THEM DOWN TO CAPITOL
HILL TO GO AND PREACH THE
BUILDING AND TRASH THE VERY
SACRED HALLS OF CONGRESS. WE NOW
KNOW THAT THAT IS NOT AT ALL
ANYTHING NEAR WHAT THE PRESIDENT
SAID. WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAID
WAS
, IF YOU CAN'T GET THE NUMBERS
OF CONGRESS TO DO AS YOU WOULD
LIKE HIM TO DO, YOU PRIMARY
THEM. THAT IS THE AMERICAN WAY.
THE FIRST WAY THE HOUSE MANAGERS
PRESENTED AND WANTED YOU TO
CONCLUDE
, THAT IS IT THE CRIMINAL WAY.
WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAID WAS THE
AMERICAN WAY.
AGAIN, THE HOUSE MEMBERS RELATED
RESIDENT TRUMPS WORDS. I CAN'T
STAND HERE AND PRETEND TO TELL
YOU THAT I KNOW EVERY TIME FROM
ALL THOSE VIDEOS THAT THE HOUSE
MANAGERS AND A BELATED WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID, PUT UP EVIDENCE
THAT WAS
NOT WITH THE FOUNDATION OF
CORRECTNESS AND ADMISSIBILITY WE
EXPECT. I CAN'T TELL YOU I
PICKED UP EVERYONE. I DON'T
THINK MR. VAN DER VEEN OR MR.
SCHOEN OR ANY OF THE OTHERS THAT
WORK WITH US  CAN TELL YOU THAT.
WHAT I CAN TELL YOU IS THAT
THERE WERE AN AWFUL LOT OF
TIMES. I KNOW AT LEAST SOME OF
YOU WERE JUDGES IN PREVIOUS
LIVES. IF ONE OF THE LAWYERS WAS
ABLE TO CREATE THE IMPRESSION
THAT ONE SIDE INTENTIONALLY
PRESENTED FALSE OR MISLEADING
EVIDENCE, THAT JUDGE WOULD GIVE
AN INSTRUCTION CALLED
FALLS IN ONE THING, FALSE IN
EVERYTHING. IN OTHER WORDS, IF
THEY ARE TRYING TO FOOL YOU
ABOUT ONE THING, NOT ONLY MIGHT
THEY BE TRYING TO FOOL YOU AND
SOMETHING ELSE BUT AFTER THAT
MAXIM OF THE LAW, YOU MAY
CONCLUDE THEY ARE TRYING TO FOOL
YOU IN EVERYTHING ELSE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS IMMEDIATE IN
HIS CALLS CALM AND RESPECT FOR
LAW ENFORCEMENT. THE HOUSE
MANAGERS EMPHASIZED PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S TWEET IN THE 6:00 P.M.
HOUR, WHERE HE TOLD CROWDS TO
QUOTE GO HOME IN LOVE AND PEACE
AND REMEMBER THIS DAY. WHAT IS
IT THAT THEY LEFT OUT? WELL, THE
HOUSE STARTS THERE RECITATION OF
WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S SAID AS
FAR AS THE AFTERMATH OF WHEN THE
CAPITOL WAS BREACHED AT ROUGHLY
6:00 P.M. WHAT THEY DON'T TELL
YOU
, AND DIDN'T TELL YOU, AND WHICH
YOU PROBABLY DON'T KNOW BECAUSE
I THINK I AM THE FIRST ONE TO
SAY IT IN THIS FORM
, IS THAT 2:38, PRESIDENT TRUMP
URGED PROTESTERS AT THE U.S.
CAPITOL TO, "STAY PEACEFUL,
PLEASE SUPPORT OUR CAPITOL
POLICE, AND LAW ENFORCEMENT.
THEY ARE TRULY ON THE SIDE OF
OUR COUNTRY. STAY PEACEFUL.
" BEFORE WE ON THE GRAPHIC, I
WANT TO POINT OUT THE PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S SPEECH ENDED AT 1:11
P.M. AT 2:38 P.M., BY THE TIME
WOULD REDUCE THE PRESIDENT THAT
THERE IS PROBABLY YOUR
, HE IS URGING PEOPLE TO SUPPORT
THE POLICE, THE PEACEFUL.
12:49 P.M., THE FIRST BARRIERS
AT THE US CAPITOL GROUNDS WERE
PUSHED OVER AND THE CROWD ENTER
THE RESTRICTED AREA. AT 11:05
P.M., ACTING TO FIT DEFENSE
SECRETARY CHRISTOPHER MILLER
RECEIVED OPEN-SOURCE REPORTS OF
DEMONSTRATOR MOVEMENTS TO THE
U.S. CAPITAL. AT 1:09 P.M., U.S.
CAPITOL POLICE CHIEF
CALLED THE HOUSE AND SENATE
SERGEANT AT ARMS, TELLING THEM
HE WANTED AN EMERGENCY DECLARED,
AND HE WANTED THE NATIONAL GUARD
CALLED
.  THE POINT, GIVEN THE TIMELINE
OF EVENTS, THE CRIMINALS AT THE
CAPITOL  WEREN'T THERE AT THE
ELLIPSE TO EVEN HEAR THE
PRESIDENT'S WORDS. THEY WERE
MORE THAN A MILE AWAY ENGAGED IN
THEIR PREPLANNED ASSAULT ON THIS
VERY BUILDING. THIS WAS A
PREPLANNED ASSAULT, MAKE NO
MISTAKE, AND THAT IS A CRITICAL
FACT. WATCH THIS.
&gt;&gt; DOES ANYONE IN THIS CHAMBER
HONESTLY BELIEVE THAT BUT FOR
THE CONDUCT OF THE PRESIDENT
TRUMP, THAT THE CHARGE OF THE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT, THAT
THAT ATTACK IN THE CAPITOL WOULD
HAVE OCCURRED? DOES ANYBODY
BELIEVE THAT?
&gt;&gt; IF IT WAS NOT SOME SORT OF
SPONTANEOUS DECISION BY
PROTESTERS TO GO UP TO CAPITOL
HILL AND STORM CAPITOL HILL,
THIS WAS ALL PLANNED OUT.
&gt;&gt; HOW MUCH OF IT WAS PLANNED?
HOW MUCH OF THIS WAS STRATEGIZED
AHEAD OF TIME?
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE GETTING SOME
INDICATION THAT INDICATES THAT
THERE WAS SOME LEVEL OF
PLANNING.
&gt;&gt; THERE APPEARS TO BE
PREMEDITATION.
&gt;&gt; THE FBI ISSUED A WARNING OF A
WAR AT THE CAPITOL PERIOD THE
FBI WARNED LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES ABOUT THIS SPECIFIC
ATTACK.
&gt;&gt; BE READY TO FIGHT. CONGRESS
NEEDS TO HEAR GLASS BREAKING,
DOORS BEING KICKED IN.
&gt;&gt; WE DEVELOP SOME INTELLIGENCE
THAT A NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS
WERE PLANNING TO TRAVEL TO THE
D.C. AREA  WITH INTENTIONS TO
CAUSE VIOLENCE. WE SHARED THAT
INFORMATION.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS IMMEDIATELY
DISSEMINATED AND BRIEFED TO OUR
COMMAND POST OPERATIONS TO ALL
LEVELS OF LAW ENFORCEMENT.
&gt;&gt; THE FBI SAYS TO BOMBS
DISCOVERED NEAR THE CAPITOL
WERE PLACED THERE THE NIGHT
BEFORE.
&gt;&gt; NEW VIDEO APPEARS TO SHOW A
PERSON SUSPECTED OF PLANTING
PIPE BOMBS NEAR THE U.S. CAPITOL
THE NIGHT BEFORE.
&gt;&gt; THE FBI SAID THE BOMBS WERE
PLANTED THE NIGHT BEFORE THE C'S
BETWEEN 7:30 AND 8:30 P.M.
&gt;&gt; THEY WERE PLANTED THE DAY
BEFORE.
&gt;&gt; THIS ALL GOES TO THE IDEA OF
PREMEDITATION.
&gt;&gt; THIS WAS A PLANNED ASSAULT.
&gt;&gt; SO, TO ANSWER THE QUESTION OF
THE HOUSE MANAGER, DOES ANYBODY
BELIEVE THAT THIS WOULD HAVE
OCCURRED BUT FOR THE SPEECH FROM
DONALD TRUMP, I DO.
ALL OF THESE FACTS MAKE CLEAR
THE JANUARY 6 SPEECH DID NOT
CAUSE OF THE RIOTS, THE
PRESIDENT DID NOT CAUSE THE
RIOTS, HE NEITHER
EXPLICITLY OR IMPLICITLY
ENCOURAGED THE USE OF VIOLENCE
OR LAWLESS ACTION BUT IN FACT,
CALLED FOR PEACEFUL EXERCISE OF
EVERY AMERICAN'S FIRST AMENDMENT
RIGHTS TO PEACEFULLY ASSEMBLE
AND PETITION THEIR GOVERNMENT
FOR ADDRESS OF GRIEVANCES. IN
OTHER WORDS, THE BRANDENBURG
STANDARD DOES NOT MEET UP. THE
HOUSE MANAGERS ADMITTED MANY
FACTS ARE UNKNOWN
EVEN SPEAKER PELOSI ADMITTED NOT
KNOWING THE REAL CAUSE OF THE
VIOLENCE WHEN SHE CALLED FOR A
9/11 STYLE COMMISSION TO EXAMINE
THE FACTS AND CAUSES THAT LED TO
THE VIOLENCE.
ON THE SCREEN IS SPEAKER
PELOSI'S CALL FOR THE 9/11
COMMISSION
.
LET'S TOUCH NOW ON THE SECOND
ABSURD AND CONFLATED ALLEGATION
IN THE HOUSE MANAGER SINGLE
ARTICLE. PRESIDENT TRUMP'S PHONE
CALL TO GEORGIA SECRETARY OF
STATE BEN ROETHLISBERGER
SURREPTITIOUSLY RECORDED BY THE
WAY, INCLUDED MULTIPLE ATTORNEYS
AND OTHERS ON THE CALL. LET ME
POINT OUT THE VERY OBVIOUS FACT
THAT THE HOUSE MANAGERS IGNORED.
THE PRIVATE CALL THAT WAS MADE
PUBLIC BY OTHERS CANNOT REALLY
BE THE BASIS TO CLAIM THAT THE
PRESIDENT
INTENDED TO INCITE A RIOT,
BECAUSE HE DID NOT PUBLICLY
DISCLOSE THE CONTENTS OF THE
CALL. HOW COULD HE HAVE HOPED TO
USE THIS CALL
TO INVITE HIS FOLLOWERS, IF HE
HAD NO INTENT TO MAKE THE
CONVERSATION PUBLIC AND INDEED,
HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH IT INC.
SECRETLY RECORDED? THE HOUSE
MANAGERS TOLD YOU THAT THE
PRESIDENT DEMANDED THAT THE
GEORGIA SECRETARY OF STATE FIND
JUST OVER 11,000 VOTES. THE WORD
FINE, LIKE SO MANY OTHERS THE
HOUSE MANAGERS HIGHLIGHTED WAS
TAKEN COMPLETELY OUT OF CONTEXT
. AND THE WORD FIND DID NOT COME
OUT OF THIN AIR
. BASED ON AN ANALYSIS OF
PUBLICLY AVAILABLE VOTER DATA
THAT THE BALLOT REJECTION RATE
IN GEORGIA IN 2016 WAS
APPROXIMATELY 6.42% AND EVEN
THOUGH
A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
FIRST-TIME MAIL-IN BALLOTS WERE
INCLUDED IN THE 2020 COUNT, THE
GEORGIA REJECTION RATE IN 2020
WAS A MERE 4/10 OF 1%, A DROP
OFF FROM 6.42% TO .4%.
PRESIDENT TRUMP ONE OF THE
SIGNATURE VERIFICATION TO BE
DONE IN PUBLIC. HOW CAN A
REQUEST FOR SIGNATURE
VERIFICATIONS TO BE DONE IN
PUBLIC, BE A BASIS FOR A CHARGE
FOR INCITING A RIDE?
WITH THAT BACKGROUND, IT IS
CLEAR THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
COMMENTS AND THE USE OF THE
WORD, FIND, OR SOLELY RELATED TO
HIS CONCERNS WITH THE
INEXPLICABLE DRAMATIC DROP IN
GEORGIA'S BALLOT REJECTION RATE
. LET'S EXAMINE HOW THE WORD,
FIND, WAS USED THROUGHOUT THAT
CONVERSATION. MR. TRUMP'S FIRST
USE OF THE WORD FINE WAS AS
FOLLOWS, QUOTE,
WE THINK THAT IF YOU CHECK THE
SIGNATURES, A REAL CHECK OF THE
SIGNATURES, GOING BACK IN FULTON
COUNTY, YOU WILL FIND AT LEAST A
COUPLE HUNDRED THOUSAND FORGED
SIGNATURES OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE
BEEN FORGED
. AND WE ARE QUITE SURE THAT IS
GOING TO HAPPEN.
PRESIDENT TRUMP ALSO USED FIND,
AS FOLLOWS,
NOW, WHY AREN'T WE DOING
SIGNATURE AND WHY CAN'T IT BE
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
? AND WHY CAN'T WE HAVE
PROFESSIONALS DO IT INSTEAD OF
RANK AMATEURS WHO WILL NEVER
FIND ANYTHING AND DON'T WANT TO
FIND ANYTHING? THEY DON'T WANT
TO FIND, YOU KNOW, THEY DON'T
WANT TO FIND ANYTHING. SOMEDAY,
YOU WILL TELL ME THE REASON WHY
. BECAUSE I DON'T UNDERSTAND
YOUR REASONING. BUT SOMEDAY,
YOU'LL TELL ME THE REASON WHY
BUT WHY DON'T YOU WANT TO FIND
? PRESIDENT TRUMP ECHOED HIS
PREVIOUS SENTIMENTS IN THE
CONTEXT OF PURSUING
A LEGITIMATE INVESTIGATION AND
THE LACK OF SIGNATURE
VERIFICATION FOR MAIL AND AN
ABSENTEE BALLOTS.
AND WHY CAN'T WE HAVE
PROFESSIONALS DO IT INSTEAD OF
RANK AMATEURS WHO WILL NEVER
FIND ANYTHING AND DON'T WANT TO
FIND ANYTHING. THEY DON'T WANT
TO FIND ANYTHING YOU KNOW, THEY
DON'T WANT TO FIND ANYTHING
. THEY DON'T WANT TO FIND, YOU
KNOW THEY DON'T WANT TO FIND
ANYTHING, SOMEDAY YOU'LL TELL ME
WHY BECAUSE I DON'T UNDERSTAND
YOUR REASONING BUT SOMEDAY YOU
WILL TELL ME WHY. WHY DON'T YOU
WANT TO FIND, WE CAN GO THROUGH
SIGNATURE VERIFICATION AND WE
WILL FIND HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF SIGNATURES AND YOU CAN LET US
DO IT, AND THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN
DO THAT, AS YOU KNOW, IS TO GO
TO THE PAST, BUT YOU DIDN'T DO
THAT IN COBB COUNTY, YOU JUST
LOOKED AT ONE PAGE COMPARED
TO ANOTHER, THE ONLY WAY THAT
YOU CAN DO A SIGNATURE
VERIFICATION IS TO GO FROM ONE
THAT'S SIGNED ON NOVEMBER
WHATEVER, RECENTLY, AND COMPARE
IT TO TWO YEARS AGO FOUR YEARS
AGO, SIX YEARS AGO, YOU KNOW, OR
EVEN
ONE. AND YOU WILL FIND YOU HAVE
MANY DIFFERENT SIGNATURES BUT IN
FULTON, WHERE THEY DUMPED
BALLOTS, YOU WILL FIND THAT YOU
HAVE MANY THAT AREN'T EVEN
SIGNED, AND YOU WILL HAVE MANY
FORGERIES.
MR. TRUMP CONTINUE TO USE THE
WORD FINE THROUGHOUT THE
CONVERSATION, EACH AND EVERY
TIME IN THE CONTEXT OF HIS
REQUEST, THAT MR. BRAD
RAFFENSPERGER REVIEW  SIGNATURE
VERIFICATIONS AND HIS CONCERNS
GENERALLY WITH BALLOT INTEGRITY
AND HIS REPORT OF ELECTORAL
DEFICIT, HERE ARE A FEW
EXAMPLES. BUT WHY WOULDN'T YOU
WANT TO FIND THE RIGHT ANSWER,
BRAD, INSTEAD OF KEEP SAYING
THAT THE NUMBERS ARE RIGHT,
BECAUSE THOSE NUMBERS ARE SO
WRONG IN ANOTHER EXAMPLE
. WE THINK THAT IF YOU CHECK THE
SIGNATURES, A REAL CHECK OF THE
SIGNATURES, GOING BACK IN FULTON
COUNTY, YOU WILL FIND AT LEAST A
COUPLE HUNDRED THOUSAND OF
FORGED SIGNATURES OF PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BEEN FORGED AND WE ARE
QUITE SURE THAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN
. MOREOVER, THERE WAS NOTHING
UNTOWARD WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP OR
ANY OTHER CANDIDATE FOR THAT
MATTER, SPEAKING WITH THE LEAD
ELECTIONS OFFICER OF A STATE,
THAT'S WHY THE GEORGIA SECRETARY
OF STATE TOOK A CALL ALONG WITH
MEMBERS OF HIS TEAM
, ONE OF WHOM DECIDED TO RECORD
AND RELEASE IT TO THE PRESS. THE
ONLY REASON THIS CONVERSATION IS
BEING DISCUSSED IN THIS CHAMBER
IS BECAUSE ONCE AGAIN THE MEDIA
AND THEIR DEMOCRATIC ALLIES
DISTORTED THE TRUE CONVERSATION
TO MISLEAD YOU AND THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC. SO, WE HAVE A COMPLETE
LACK OF EVIDENCE
FOR THE ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT
PRESENTED BY THE HOUSE MANAGERS.
SO WHY ARE WE HERE? POLITICS.
THEIR GOAL IS TO ELIMINATE A
POLITICAL OPPONENT. TO
SUBSTITUTE THEIR JUDGMENT FOR
THE WILL OF THE VOTERS.
&gt;&gt; WHY BOTHER WITH A SENATE
TRIAL OF DONALD TRUMP, HE'S NO
LONGER PRESIDENT?
&gt;&gt; HE WILL
&gt;&gt;
DONALD TRUMP WILL NOT BE ABLE TO
RUN FOR OFFICE AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; DISQUALIFIED FROM RUNNING
FROM OFFICE.
&gt;&gt; DISQUALIFY HIM FROM EVER
RUNNING FOR OFFICE AGAIN.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; IT'S ABOUT
FOCUSING THAT HE CAN NEVER RUN
AWAY.
&gt;&gt; REMOVE HIM FROM EVER RUNNING
FOR OFFICE AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; THE BAN OF FORMER PRESIDENT
TRUMP FROM RUNNING AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; IF WE DON'T IMPEACH THIS
PRESIDENT HE WILL GET REELECTED.
&gt;&gt; THE GOAL IS TO ELIMINATE A
POLITICAL OPPONENT, TO
SUBSTITUTE THEIR JUDGMENT FOR
THE WILL OF THE VOTERS MEMBERS
OF THE SENATE, OUR COUNTRY NEEDS
TO GET BACK TO WORK. I KNOW THAT
YOU KNOW THAT. AND INSTEAD, WE
ARE HERE, THE MAJORITY PARTY
PROMISED TO UNIFY AND DELIVER
MORE COVID RELIEF. BUT INSTEAD,
THEY DID THIS. WE WILL NOT TAKE
MOST OF OUR TIME TODAY
, US, OF THE DEFENSE, IN THE
HOPES THAT YOU WILL TAKE BACK
THESE HOURS, AND USE THEM TO GET
DELIVERY OF COVID RELIEF TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. LET US BE CLEAR
, THIS TRIAL IS ABOUT FAR MORE
THAN PRESIDENT TRUMP
. IT IS ABOUT SILENCING AND
BANNING THE SPEECH THE MAJORITY
DOES NOT AGREE WITH. IT IS ABOUT
CANCELING 75 MILLION TRUMP
VOTERS, AND CRIMINALIZING
POLITICAL VIEWPOINTS
WHAT THIS TRIAL IS REALLY ABOUT.
IT'S THE ONLY EXISTENTIAL ISSUE
BEFORE US
. AND ASKS FOR CONSTITUTIONAL
COUNSEL CULTURE TO TAKE OVER IN
THE UNITED STATES SENATE. ARE WE
GOING TO ALLOW
CANCELING AND BANNING AND
SILENCING TO BE SANCTIONED IN
THIS BODY?
TO THE DEMOCRATS WHO VIEW THIS
AS A MOMENT OF OPPORTUNITY, I
URGE YOU INSTEAD TO LOOK TO THE
PRINCIPLES OF FREE EXPRESSION
AND FREE SPEECH. I HOPE
, TRULY, THAT THE NEXT TIME YOU
ARE IN THE MINORITY, THAT YOU
DON'T FIND YOURSELF IN THIS
POSITION. TO REPUBLICANS IN THIS
CHAMBER, I ASK, WHEN YOU ARE
NEXT TO THE MAJORITY, PLEASE
RESIST WHAT WILL BE AN
OVERWHELMING TEMPTATION
TO DO THIS VERY SAME THING TO
THE OPPOSING PARTY
. MEMBERS OF THE SENATE, THIS
CONCLUDES THE FORMAL DEFENSE OF
THE 45th PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES TO THE IMPEACHMENT
ARTICLE FILED BY THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES. I UNDERSTAND
THAT THERE IS A PROCEDURE IN
PLACE FOR QUESTIONS, AND WE
AWAIT THEM, THEREAFTER WE WILL
CLOSE ON BEHALF OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP. MR. PRESIDENT, WE YIELD
THE BALANCE.
&gt;&gt; I ASK UNANIMOUS CONSENT, WE
TAKE A 15 MINUTE RECESS.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE WILL STAY IN
RECESS.
&gt;&gt;
OKAY, DONALD TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS
HAVE WRAPPED UP THEIR OPENING
ARGUMENTS, THEY GILDED THE
REMAINDER OF THEIR TIME
AND SO NOW, LET'S GO TO JAMES
HOLMAN, FOR MORE, WITH WHERE WE
ARE AT, SO JAMES, THEY COULD
HAVE GONE FOR EIGHT HOURS TODAY
AND EIGHT HOURS TOMORROW, THEY
HAVE ELECTED NOT TO DO THAT THEY
SAY THEY ARE READY TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS. AND THAT MAY BE VERY
REVEALING AS TO WHERE SENATORS
MINDS ARE AT BECAUSE, IN THAT
PROCESS, WHILE THEY CAN TRY TO
AUTHENTICALLY GET AT SOME
ANSWERS, THE SENATORS CAN ALSO
REVEAL WHAT SORTS OF QUESTIONS
ARE ON THEIR MIND.
&gt;&gt; THIS IN SOME WAYS IS THE MOST
INTERESTING PART BECAUSE REALLY,
YOU COULD READ THE BRIEFS FROM
BOTH SIDES TO KNOW THAT THEY
WERE GOING TO ARGUE AND FRANKLY
WITH SOME VARIATION AND WE HAVE
THE AUDIO VISUALS, WE SAW THE
ARGUMENTS LAST WEEK, THAT THE
PATIENT MANAGERS AND THE DEFENSE
WERE GOING TO MAKE, AND THEY
PRETTY MUCH STUCK WITH
THOSE. THIS HOWEVER IS THE FIRST
WINDOW INTO WHERE SOME OF THE
SENATORS ARE, WE'VE HAD SENATORS
COME TO THE MIKE'S, PULL REPORTS
WHERE OUR REPORTERS WERE ABLE TO
APPROACH SOME OF THE SENATORS
BUT WE ACTUALLY HAVE NOT HEARD
FROM A BUNCH OF THEM, BUNCH OF
THE SENATORS WHO REALLY COULD BE
UP FOR GRABS HERE, WHO COULD BE
ON THE FENCE, ESPECIALLY AFTER
THE LAST FOUR DAYS OF ARGUMENTS.
THIS IS THEIR CHANCE, THIS MIGHT
BE THE FIRST TIME WE HEAR FROM
SOME OF THOSE PEOPLE, AND WE
MIGHT GET A SENSE OF WHETHER
THIS REALLY IS GOING TO BE THE
MOST BIPARTISAN IMPEACHMENT
CONVICTION VOTE IN AMERICAN
HISTORY.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT
WE HEARD THIS AFTERNOON IN TERMS
OF THE TRUMP DEFENSE. THEY HAVE
LEFT A LOT OF QUESTIONS
UNANSWERED, QUESTIONS THAT WE
KNOW THAT SOME REPUBLICANS NOT
JUST DEMOCRATS
WANT RESOLVED. WHAT DID THEY
FOCUS ON?
&gt;&gt; WHAT THEY DID FOCUS ON WAS
SAYING THAT WHAT TRUMP DID WAS
FREE SPEECH, THE FIRST PART
BEFORE WE TOOK THIS MOST RECENT
BREAK WAS TO FOCUS ON HOW
POLITICIANS USE MARTIAL RHETORIC
ALL THE TIME, USING WORDS LIKE
FIGHT, WE SAW A LOT OF
COMPILATIONS, HIGHLIGHTING
DEMOCRATS, SAYING YOU NEED TO
FIGHT, HIGHLIGHTING VIOLENCE AND
MOBS IN THE STREET DURING THE
SUMMER WHEN SOME OF THE PROTESTS
GOT OUT OF CONTROL. THEY SAID
THAT WHAT TRUMP SAID ON JANUARY
6 WAS STANDARD FARE
POLITICAL SPEECH THAT WAS EVEN
PATRIOTIC, THAT HE WAS TRYING TO
CALL FOR PEOPLE TO FIGHT TO
CHANGE ELECTION LAWS IN THE
FUTURE AND TO PRIMARY
REPUBLICANS WHO DIDN'T BACK HIM
UP ON TRYING TO OVERTURN THE
ELECTION BUT THAT HE WAS NOT
DIRECTLY TRYING TO TELL PEOPLE
TO GO ACTUALLY PHYSICALLY
SIEGE THE CAPITOL, EVEN AS HE
WAS POINTING AND SAYING, GO TO
THE CAPITOL, I'M GOING WITH YOU,
LET'S FIGHT.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLVIN, LIVE ON
CAPITOL HILL. RHONDA, THE MOST
SALIENT POINTS THEY MADE, AND
THAT ALSO RHONDA, WHAT HAVE THEY
LEFT NOT DEALT WITH
?
&gt;&gt; THEY SOMEWHAT ADDRESSED HIS
CONDUCT DURING THE INSURRECTION,
WHERE THEY SAID THAT THE PATIENT
MANAGERS HAVE POINTED OUT THAT
HE DID NOT SUBMIT THAT VIDEOTAPE
UNTIL ABOUT 4:00, HOURS AFTER
THE INSURRECTION HAD ALREADY
BEEN UNDERWAY BUT HE SAID THAT
THEY DID
TWEET OUT AND SAY THE LAW
ENFORCEMENT IS ON OUR SIDE, BUT
WHAT IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE
REALLY ARGUING IS THERE WAS NO
EMPHATIC STOP NOW, DON'T DO
THIS. THERE WAS NO ASSISTANCE IN
SENDING IN THE NATIONAL GUARD,
NOT THAT THE MANAGERS WERE ABLE
TO FIND, THAT HE WAS NOT A PART
OF THOSE DISCUSSIONS. SO FOR
SOMEBODY LIKE BILL CASSIDY, WHO
SEEMS TO BE ONE OF THE
REPUBLICANS WHO IS UP FOR GRABS,
REALLY, IN DETERMINING WHAT SIDE
HE'S GOING TO VOTE ON,
HE MENTIONED EARLIER THAT HE
WANTED TO HEAR MORE ABOUT AN
EXPLANATION OF TRUMP'S CONDUCT,
SO, TODAY, THEY DID KIND OF
ADDRESS THAT BUT THEY DIDN'T GO
OVERBOARD WITH THAT. HOW THEY
DID ADDRESS IT ALSO WAS TALK
ABOUT HOW HE IS THE MOST LAW AND
ORDER PRESIDENT, THAT SOMETHING
WE JUST HEARD MR. CASTOR TALKING
ABOUT, PLAYING THAT REAL
WHERE PRESIDENT TRUMP IS SAYING
LAW AND ORDER OVER AND OVER
AGAIN, YOU SAW THAT REAL EARLIER
IN THE DAY, TOO, AND THAT IS ONE
THING I THINK STOOD OUT, HE
SAID,
TRUMP IS THE MOST LAW AND ORDER
PRESIDENT THAT WE'VE EVER HAD,
HE DID NOT AGREE WITH THIS, AND
HIS REAL SUPPORTERS KNOW THAT.
AND I THOUGHT TO MYSELF, THAT
SEEMS TO BE DRAWING A LINE
BETWEEN THE PEOPLE WHO WERE
HERE, WHO SAID THEY WERE HERE ON
BEHALF OF DONALD TRUMP, AND
THESE REAL SUPPORTERS THAT HIS
DEFENSE TEAM ONCE THE WORLD TO
KNOW ARE THE REAL PEOPLE WHO
SUPPORT HIM, THEY BELIEVE
IN-LINE ORDER, THESE OTHER
PEOPLE ARE DIFFERENT. SO THAT
MIGHT BE SOMETHING THAT MIGHT BE
AN EFFECTIVE OFFRAMP FOR SOME OF
THE, THEY ARE THE REAL
SUPPORTERS OF DONALD TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; LET'S TALK ABOUT THE PROCESS
THAT GOES FORWARD, NOW BECAUSE
THESE ATTORNEYS FOR DONALD TRUMP
HAS WRAPPED UP SO QUICKLY, SO,
BEFORE THEIR TIME IS UP, WE CAN
MOVE ON TO THE QUESTION PHASE,
SO TAKE US THROUGH WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT.
&gt;&gt; ACCORDING TO THE RULES, THEY
CAN TAKE UP TO FOUR HOURS FOR
THE Q&amp;A PORTION. THIS PORTION
THAT WE WILL MAYBE BE SEEING
SOON, IS GOING TO START OFF
WHERE REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS,
WHO HAVE QUESTIONS,
CAN FILL OUT A CARD, THEY CAN'T
VERBALLY ASK A QUESTION, THAT'S
A PART OF THE RULES, TOO, SO
THEY FILL OUT A CARD, A SINGLE
MEMBER CAN FILL OUT THE CARD AND
ASK A LOAN QUESTION OR SEVERAL
OF THEM CAN JOIN ONE QUESTION ON
A CARD. AND IT'S ALWAYS AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THIS
PROCEEDING, TO WATCH THIS MOMENT
BECAUSE YOU ARE ABLE TO SEE
WHAT IS THEIR CURRENT THINKING,
ESPECIALLY THOSE WHO HAVE NOT
COMMITTED ONE WAY OR ANOTHER ON
HOW THEY'RE GOING TO VOTE, SO
THAT IS WHAT WILL BE UNDERWAY IN
THIS NEXT PHASE, AND THEN AFTER
THAT, YOU OF COURSE HAVE CLOSING
ARGUMENTS, AND THEN YOU HAVE A
BOAT
.
&gt;&gt; LET'S TAKE A LOOK AT THE
PROCESS, SORT OF A GRAPHIC, TO
SEE JUST WHAT RHONDA WAS
DESCRIBING, THE FOUR HOURS, TO
QUESTION BOTH SIDES. THAT LOOKS
LIKE THEY'RE GOING TO START THAT
AFTERNOON. THEN THERE'S THE
QUESTION OF WITNESSES, THE
CLOSING ARGUMENTS, AND THE VOTE.
RHONDA, MIKE WAS
CLOCKING THIS FOR US, TWO HOURS,
32 MINUTES, THAT'S ALL THE TIME
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S TEAM USED
, SO, THEY HAVE LEFT A LOT ON
THE FLOOR, I MEAN, THEY HIT A
LITTLE BIT AT PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S COMMENTS AND ACTIONS
LEADING UP TO JANUARY 6, BY
TRYING TO FOCUS ON THAT GEORGIA
PHONE CALL
BUT THAT SUCH A SMALL AND
LIMITED SLICE, AND OF COURSE
IT'S ONE THAT THE WASHINGTON
POST HAS DEEPLY REPORTED ON.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT, THEY DID
ADDRESS THAT BECAUSE THAT IS
WRITTEN IN THE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT, HIS CALL
WITH THE SECRETARY OF STATE OF
GEORGIA, THE CALL THAT CAME TO
LIGHT JUST A FEW DAYS BEFORE
JANUARY 6, AND THAT WAS PROBABLY
TO ADDRESS THE CLAIMS THAT ALL
OF THIS DISCUSSION AND RHETORIC
OF A FRAUDULENT ELECTION, LED TO
JANUARY 6, AND THEY WERE TRYING
TO, IN THEIR TERMS, DESCRIBE HOW
THIS WAS NOT REALLY INVOLVED,
AND THEY ALSO POINTED OUT THAT
THIS CALL WAS LEAKED, AND WENT
THROUGH IT, BUT IT REALLY ISN'T
A VERY LARGE PART OF WHAT WE
THOUGHT WE WOULD HEAR FROM THESE
DEFENSE ATTORNEYS, I THINK THEY
ADDED THAT IN THEIR JUST TO KIND
OF PUT A PERIOD AT THE END OF
THAT,
THEY'VE ONLY USED A QUARTER OF
THEIR TIME, THEY COULD HAVE
STRETCH THIS OUT LIKE THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS DID OVER
THE COURSE OF TWO DAYS, THEY HAD
A FULL 16 HOURS AT THEIR
DISPOSAL AND HAVE ONLY USED A
LITTLE BIT OF IT, AND YOU WONDER
IF THAT IS SHOWING THAT THEY
FEEL THEY JUST DIDN'T HAVE TO
WORK AS HARD TO COMPEL THE
SENATORS IN THEIR OR THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. AND THEY CAME
IN THIS MORNING SAYING THAT THEY
WEREN'T GOING TO USE ALL OF THIS
TIME, AND IF YOU HEARD MR.
CASTOR
TOWARD THE END, HE SAID WE WANT
TO GIVE YOU BACK THIS TIME SO
THAT YOU COULD GO TO WORK FOR
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND START
PASSING COVID LEGISLATION, WHICH
IS AGAIN, SOMETHING THAT SENATE
REPUBLICANS CAN USE, TOO, WHEN
THEY EXPLAIN THEIR VOTE, WHEN
THEY SAY THAT WE JUST WANTED TO
MOVE THIS ALONG BECAUSE WE HAVE
THESE OTHER WEIGHTY ISSUES AHEAD
OF US.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, BRUCE CASTOR THERE, AT
THE END,
SORT OF TRIED TO SHOW THAT HE'S
THE GUY IN CHARGE. HE STARTED
OFF BY TALKING ABOUT AS THE LEAD
PERSON, I MAKE THE DECISIONS
HERE, AND IT DID SEEM LIKE
TRYING TO CLAIM SOME EGO GROUND
BECAUSE WE KNOW FROM WASHINGTON
POST REPORTING THAT DONALD TRUMP
WAS NOT HAPPY WITH HIS
ARGUMENTS,
REPUBLICANS IN THE SENATE HAVE
PUBLICLY GONE ON RECORD,
EXPRESSING DISMAY AND
DISAPPOINTMENT AT HIS
PERFORMANCE EARLIER THIS WEEK.
SO HE'S KIND OF TRYING TO CLAIM
SOME GROUND, BUT IT DOES SHOW
YOU HOW NEW THIS IS, TO THESE
GENTLEMEN IN THAT YOU KNOW, HE
WAS MARVELING AND QUESTIONING
WHETHER OR NOT HE WAS UNDER
OATH, HE WAS GETTING NAMES WRONG
YOU KNOW, THIS IS NOT FAMILIAR
TURF FOR THEM AND FRANKLY, YOU
CAN TELL.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THAT RIFF AT THE
BEGINNING FROM CASTOR WAS SORT
OF LIKE DWIGHT SAYING I'M THE
ASSISTANT REGIONAL MANAGER
, NOT THE ASSISTANT TO THE
REGIONAL MANAGER, THESE ARE
LAWYERS WHO DON'T HAVE A
BACKGROUND IN CONSTITUTIONAL
LAW, NONE OF THE THREE OF THEM,
NONE OF THE THREE OF THEM HAVE
LONG-STANDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH
DONALD TRUMP. NONE OF THE THREE
OF THEM HAVE LONG-STANDING
RELATIONSHIPS WITH EACH OTHER
ALTHOUGH CASTOR AND VANDER WIEN
WORK AT THE SAME FIRM, IT'S A
PERSONAL INJURY AMBULANCE
CHASING SLIP AND FALL KIND OF
LAW FIRM. SO THE RESULTS OF THAT
IS
THEY ARE NOT CONGRESSIONAL
STAFFERS, THEY ARE NOT LAWYERS
WHO HAVE ARGUED BEFORE THE
SUPREME COURT, AND IT DID SHOW.
SOME OF THE GETTING THE NAMES
WRONG, CONFUSING THE WORD SENSOR
AND CENSURE, TO TALK ABOUT
OREGON, SOMETHING THAT THE TWO
OREGON SENATORS CRINGED AT.
IT FELT LIKE AMATEUR HOUR FROM
THE TRUMP TEAM BUT AGAIN, THEY
OBVIOUSLY FEEL CONFIDENT THAT
THEY HAVE THE VOTES. WHAT'S
AMAZING IS THAT
IT APPEARS THEY HAVE AT LEAST
ONE FEWER VOTES THAN THEY DID AT
THE START OF THE WEEK, BILL
CASSIDY. WE DON'T KNOW HOW HE'S
GOING TO VOTE ON THE FINAL ISSUE
BUT, HE SAID HE CHANGED HIS MIND
BECAUSE OF THE POOR QUALITY OF
THE PRESIDENTS DEFENSE
ARGUMENTS. AS WE'VE BEEN SAYING
DURING THESE BREAKS, LIBBY,
THIS IS A CASE THAT'S AIMED AT
THE COURT OF PUBLIC OPINION AND
AIMED AT THE AUDIENCE OF ONE,
DONALD TRUMP. INTERVIEWER DONALD
TRUMP WATCHING THE LAST 2 1/2
HOURS, YOU ARE PROBABLY PRETTY
HAPPY WITH HOW IT WENT. YOU FEEL
LIKE YOU SORT OF, THEY CHECKED
THE RIGHT BOXES, THEY USED THE
RIGHT GRIEVANCES,
THE CANCEL CULTURE LINE, THERE
IS A FAIR AMOUNT IN THERE THAT
HAD TO MAKE TRUMP HAPPY AND
ULTIMATELY,
I'M NOT SURE FRANKLY IF THEY HAD
USED ALL 16 HOURS, THAT WOULDN'T
HAVE POTENTIALLY TURNED OFF SOME
OF THE REPUBLICANS WHO ARE ON
THE FENCE MORE. THAT SAID, IT
REALLY IS STRIKING HOW LITTLE
TIME THEY SPENT DEALING WITH
WHAT DEMOCRATS
TEED UP AS THE CRITICAL QUESTION
AND I'M SURE THIS IS GOING TO
COME UP LATER THIS AFTERNOON
WHICH IS, WHAT WAS TRUMP DOING
DURING THOSE HOURS, HOW MUCH DID
HE ACTUALLY RESIST, WAS TRUMP
GLEEFUL AS WHAT WAS HAPPENING
PLAYED OUT
. OBVIOUSLY WE'RE THE TRUMP
DEFENSE LAWYERS SORT OF ASSERT
FLATLY THAT TRUMP WAS HORRIFIED
BY WHAT HAPPENED. HE DIDN'T
APPROVE OF IT AT ALL, AND THAT
HE MOVES QUICKLY. WE KNOW THAT'S
NOT TRUE, FROM OUR OWN REPORTING
BUT ALSO FROM THE TIMELINE AND
FROM WHAT REPUBLICAN SENATORS
HAVE SAID TRYING TO GET THROUGH
TO TRUMP AND NOT BEING ABLE TO.
THE QUESTION IS, WILL THEY
UNPACK THAT IN THE QUESTION AND
ANSWER.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO FOCUS ON ONE LINE,
WHERE THEY FOCUSED ON THE
PHRASE THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
UTTERED ABOUT FIGHTING AND GOING
AFTER PEOPLE, PUTTING IT IN THE
CONTEXT THAT HE WAS TALKING
ABOUT THE PRIMARIES, AND TRYING
TO GO AFTER PEOPLE IN A
POLITICAL PRIMARY. THAT DID SEEM
TO BE ONE SORT OF COGENT
ARGUMENTS, TRYING TO GIVE SOME
MORE CONTEXT TO A SNIPPETS, THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS USED. AND
THEN THEY WERE TRYING TO SHOW
THAT LOOK, IF YOU CAN'T TRUST
HIM ON THIS, WHAT CAN YOU TRUST
HIM ON?
&gt;&gt; ALSO, EXPLICITLY, THERE ARE
ARGUMENTS THAT YOU CAN MAKE, TO
DEFEND TRUMP. TRUMP DID
EXPLICITLY SAY DON'T BE
VIOLENCE. AND THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
ARE TRYING TO GRAPPLE WITH
YESTERDAY AS THEY SAID
PREVIOUSLY THAT IS ALL ABOUT THE
WINK AND A NOD. THIS HAS
OBVIOUSLY COME UP IN OTHER
CONTEXTS, WHEN MICHAEL COHEN
TESTIFIED, COHEN RECALLED, TRUMP
POINTING AT A TIE IN SAYING THIS
TIE IS BLUE, AND THEN IT SORT OF
BEING UNDERSTOOD THAT THE TIE
WAS RED, TRUMP WANTED TO BE
BLUE, WITHOUT HAVING TO TELL YOU
THAT
YOU HAD TO LIE AND SAY WHAT
COLOR TIE IT WAS. THAT WAS THE
ANALOGY THAT HE HAD USED. AND
DEMOCRATS WERE MAKING THOSE
POINTS, BECAUSE OF, ON A PRIMA
FACIA READING OF THE TEXT OF THE
SPEECH, TRUMP WAS
SORT OF INCLUDING SOME OF THE
RIGHT THINGS THAT YOU'RE
SUPPOSED TO SAY, AND THAT'S ALSO
WHY DEMOCRATS FOCUS SO MUCH ON
THE RESPONSE AFTERWARDS, WHEN HE
APPEARED TO RELISH WHAT WAS
GOING ON.
BUT TRUMP POINTED AT THE
CAPITOL, HE TOLD HIS PEOPLE, GO
TO THE CAPITOL, HE TOLD THEM HE
WAS GOING TO GO WITH THEM, WHICH
HE DIDN'T DO, AND  HE SAID FIGHT
LIKE HELL.
TRUMP COULD HEAR, TRUMP WAS
SAYING, TALKING ABOUT, FIGHTING
SOME OF THESE
RHINOS AS HE CALLED THEM,
REPUBLICANS IN NAME ONLY BUT
PEOPLE SAYING STORM THE CAPITOL,
PEOPLE SAYING HANG MIKE PENCE,
TRUMP COULD HEAR THAT STUFF, AND
WASN'T TELLING THE  CROWD, NO,
THAT'S NOT WHAT I'M TALKING
ABOUT, SO THAT WAS OBVIOUSLY A
PART OF THE DEMOCRATIC ARGUMENT.
BUT THERE CERTAINLY IS SOMETHING
TO BE SAID THAT TRUMP WAS AND
CONTINUES TO TALK ABOUT PRIMARY
REPUBLICANS, BUT DIFFERENT
PEOPLE HERE THAT DIFFERENT WAYS.
&gt;&gt; WE JUST SAW SENATOR GRAHAM
HEAD INTO THE ROOM WHERE TRUMP'S
LAWYERS ARE GATHERED, RHONDA,
THE TERM PRIMARY, PRIMARIES CAME
UP A LOT, AND YOU HAVE TO WONDER
IF
THIS IS A NOT-SO-SUBTLE REMINDER
TO THE JURY HERE, THAT DONALD
TRUMP STILL HAS A LOT OF POWER
IN THEIR PARTY, AND PRIMARIES
ARE A PLACE
VERY VULNERABLE.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT, AND THAT'S WHAT
HAS BEEN ON THE MINDS OF A LOT
OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE
REPUBLICANS IS WHERE DO WE GO
FROM HERE, WHEN THEY KNOW THAT
TRUMP IS STILL HIGHLY POPULAR IN
MANY OF THEIR STATES AND
DISTRICTS, AND THAT'S REALLY
PART OF THE POLITICAL
CALCULATIONS THAT ARE GOING ON
IN THE MINDS OF THESE MEMBERS.
THEY ARE THINKING ABOUT THEIR
OWN ODDS OF WINNING THEIR SEATS
OR KEEPING THEIR SEATS, AND WHAT
THIS DOES TO THE PARTY OVERALL.
SO THAT SHOULD DEFINITELY NOT BE
UNDERESTIMATED, TALK OF
PRIMARIES, THAT'S WHAT THEY'RE
THINKING. THEY KNOW THEIR
CHOICES NOW COULD AFFECT THEM IN
THE LONG RUN WHEN IT COMES TO
THE NEXT ELECTION CYCLE.
&gt;&gt;
BRUCE CASTOR ARGUED THAT SINCE
THE CONGRESS AND THE GOVERNMENT
REMAINED IN POWER ON JANUARY 6,
HIS CLIENT CANNOT BE CHARGED
WITH INCITEMENT, LET'S LISTEN.
&gt;&gt; DID THE 45th PRESIDENT ENGAGE
IN INCITEMENT OF, THEY CONTINUE
TO SAY INSURRECTION, CLEARLY,
THERE WAS NO INSURRECTION,
INSURRECTION IS A
, DEFINED IN THE LAW THAT
INVOLVES TAKING OVER A COUNTRY,
A SHADOW GOVERNMENT, TAKING THE
TV STATIONS OVER AND HAVING SOME
PLAN ON WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO DO
WHEN YOU FINALLY TAKE POWER.
CLEARLY THIS IS NOT
THAT. WHAT ARE COLLEAGUES ACROSS
THE AISLE MEANT, IS INCITEMENT
TO VIOLENCE. TO RIOT. SO THE
WORD INCITEMENT IS THE CRITICAL
CASE IN THE CRITICAL ISSUE IN
THE CASE.
&gt;&gt; SO JAMES, LET'S PARSE THAT A
LITTLE BIT FURTHER. YOU KNOW,
ATTEMPTED INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT,
THE QUESTION IS, WHAT WAS
TRUMP'S AIM ON JANUARY 6? WHY
DID TRUMP HAVE ALL THESE PEOPLE
ASSEMBLED IN WASHINGTON
FOR A STOP THE STEEL RALLY? IT
WAS TO STOP THE STEEL, AS HE
THOUGHT IT WAS. IT WAS TO STOP
THE CERTIFICATION OF THE JANUARY
6 RESULTS. JANUARY 6
IS THE DATE SET IN THE
CONSTITUTION, IT'S BEEN THERE
NOW FOR MORE THAN 100 YEARS AND
IT IS THERE THE DAY THAT THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES ARE
COUNTED. AND TRUMP'S GOAL WAS TO
PREVENT THAT FROM HAPPENING. HE
WANTED HIS VICE PRESIDENT, TO
REFUSE TO CERTIFY THE ELECTION.
HE WANTED
PEOPLE TO GO PROTEST AT THE VERY
LEAST, AT THE CAPITOL, TO STOP
IT FROM HAPPENING.  AND, IF THAT
HAD SUCCEEDED, THAT WOULD HAVE
BEEN IN
INSURRECTION, IT WOULD'VE BEEN
THE END OF AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AS
WE KNOW IT. IF THEY HAD STOPPED
THE CERTIFICATION OF THE
ELECTION, WHICH THEY DID, FOR
EIGHT HOURS, IT WOULD MEANT THAT
TRUMP WOULD CONTINUE TO HOLD
POWER AND BE PRESIDENT, AND THAT
WOULD BE IN INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, ONE OF THE ARGUMENTS
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LAWYERS
USED WAS THAT THIS WAS BEING
PLANNED AHEAD OF TIME, AND SO,
THE REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP
ON THAT DAY, ON THE ELLIPSE, YOU
KNOW, WEREN'T THE DECISIVE
FACTOR TO PEOPLE WHO WERE
PLANNING ON ATTACKING THE U.S.
CAPITOL . BUT WHAT DID THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS SAY TO
COUNTER THAT OVER THE LAST
COUPLE OF DAYS?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THEY FOCUS ON THIS TOO,
THAT IT WAS PREMEDITATED, SO
THAT'S AT LEAST ONE THING THAT
BOTH SIDES AGREED TO WAS THAT IT
WAS MORE CHOREOGRAPHED THAN
PREVIOUSLY KNOWN. THE INFUSION
MANAGERS POINTED OUT THAT FORMER
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD A SERIES OF
TWEETS AND
THE DAYS LEADING UP TO JANUARY
6, THEY CALLED IT A SAVE THE
DATE MEMO WHERE HE WAS TELLING
THEM, STAY TUNED FOR MORE
DETAILS ABOUT JANUARY 6 IT WILL
BE WILD. SO IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
SHOWED THAT HE WAS ALSO A PART
OF THE PRE-THINKING ABOUT
JANUARY 6, AND THAT WAS THE
ARGUMENT THEY WERE MAKING,
HOWEVER, THE DEFENSE TEAM SAYS
THAT REALLY THE ONUS IS ON THE
PERSONS IN THE GROUPS THAT CAME
HERE ON THEIR OWN TO DO THIS,
AND THEY ARE THE ONES THAT
PREMEDITATED AND NOT PRESIDENT
TRUMP.
&gt;&gt;
RHONDA MADE SUCH A GOOD POINT,
THAT MAY BE ONE THING THEY AGREE
ON BUT THEY CERTAINLY HAVE VERY
DIFFERENT OPINIONS ABOUT
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S INVOLVEMENT
AND RESPONSIBILITY
AND ALL THAT TEEING UP THAT
HAPPENED AHEAD OF TIME?
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY. AND IF YOU TAKE
BRUCE CASTOR'S WORD FROM IT FOR
IT, HE SAID DONALD TRUMP COULD
NOT HAVE BEEN CLEARER, THAT HE
WAS AGAINST POLITICAL VIOLENCE.
BY ANY MEASURE THERE WAS
ABSOLUTE LANGUAGE LIKE THAT, BY
ANY MEASURE DONALD TRUMP IS THE
MOST PRO-LAW-ENFORCEMENT
PRESIDENT IN AMERICAN HISTORY.
THERE'S A LOT OF STUFF THAT WAS
LIKE, WELL NOT BUY EVERY
MEASURE, CLEARLY BASED ON HIS
RESPONSE. AND IN MANY WAYS, WHAT
THE DEFENSE TEAM WAS ASKING
SENATORS AND US IS TO IGNORE
WHAT WE SAW WITH THEIR OWN EYES
AND EARS, NOT JUST ON JANUARY 6
BUT OVER THE LAST TWO DAYS, WHEN
WE RELIVED THOSE DRAMATIC
EVENTS.
&gt;&gt; WHAT WE MAKE OF SENATOR
GRAHAM GOING INTO THE CHAMBER
WHERE
TRUMP'S LAWYERS ARE PREPARING
AND COMING OUT WANDERING DOWN
THE HALL?
&gt;&gt; LINDSEY GRAHAM IS AN
INTERESTING CHARACTER. THIS IS A
GUY, HE WAS A PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE BACK IN 2016, CRITICAL
OF TRUMP BACK THEN AND ON THE
NIGHT OF JANUARY 6
, WHEN THE SENATE RECONVENED
AFTER THE MOB STORM THE CAPITOL
HE SAID THAT'S IT I'M DONE,
COUNT ME OUT, DONALD TRUMP, YOU
WILL NEVER HAVE MY SUPPORT
AGAIN. AND THEN A FEW DAYS LATER
HE WAS RECOMMENDING LAWYERS TO
TRUMP, AND WAS BACK IN HIS GOOD
GRACES, GRAHAM JUST GOT
REELECTED IN NOVEMBER IN SOUTH
CAROLINA TO ANOTHER SIX YEAR
TERM SO HE'S SAFE, SO YOU
SOMEONE WHO IS ALWAYS PLAYING
AND ANGLE, AND HAS EVOLVED QUITE
A LOT OVER TIME. AND, HE IS A
LAWYER, HE'S A FORMER NAVY
RESERVE OFFICER, HE WAS A JAGGED
LAWYER, QUITE EFFECTIVE MILITARY
LAWYER, JOHN McCAIN'S BEST
FRIEND IN THE SENATE FOR A LONG
PERIOD, HE HAS TIED HIMSELF
CLOSELY TO TRUMP SINCE McCAIN
PASSED AWAY, AND HE UNDERSTANDS
THE SENATE.
HE WAS ALSO, IT SHOULD BE SAID,
ONE OF THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS AGAINST BILL CLINTON.
IN 1999.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS TO WATCH
FOR IN THIS Q&amp;A PERIOD, IS THAT
REPUBLICANS WERE TRUMP ALLIES
CAN ACTUALLY USE SOME OF THE
QUESTIONS TO HELP KIND OF
CLEANUP THE TRUMP TEAM, THEY CAN
SORT OF ASK LEADING QUESTIONS IN
A WAY THAT
GETS REPUBLICANS WERE ON THE
FENCE, SOME OF THESE PEOPLE WHO
ARE NERVOUS AND DON'T KNOW WHAT
TO DO, TO GIVE THEM MORE REASONS
TO VOTE TO ACQUIT THE PRESIDENT,
SO LINDSEY GRAHAM IS SOMEONE WHO
HAS HIS FINGER ON THE PULSE OF
THE REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE. HE
KNOWS A LOT OF THESE WAVERING
SENATORS PRETTY WELL, SO
CERTAINLY, HE'S GIVING ADVICE
ABOUT WHAT THEY SHOULD BE SAYING
DURING THE Q&amp;A, TO TRY TO WOO
SOME OF
THOSE ON THE FENCE REPUBLICANS.
&gt;&gt; IS WITH SENATOR JOHNSON, A
REPUBLICAN, HAS TOLD REPORTERS.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT'S LAWYERS
BLEW THE HOUSE MANAGER CASE OUT
OF THE WATER, THEY LEGALLY
EVISCERATED THEM, AND THEY
CERTAINLY PROVED THAT THE FIRST
AMENDMENT APPLIES TO FIRST
AMENDMENT
SPEECH MORE THAN ANYTHING ELSE.
RHONDA, NOT A SURPRISE, WHERE
SONNET SENATOR JOHNSON STANDS ON
THIS, HE WANTS TO ACQUIT
PRESIDENT TRUMP ON THIS ONE BUT,
WHAT CAN WE READ INTO HIS
ANALYSIS TODAY?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: WELL, I THINK
REALLY, I'M NOT SURE ABOUT
HOW IT BLEW THINGS OUT OF THE
WATER, BUT IT DID CHANGE THE
TONE, DEFINITELY, BECAUSE FOR
THE LAST TWO DAYS, WE'VE SEEN
HOW SENATORS HAVE BEEN FINDING
THE EVIDENCE THAT THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS BROUGHT
FORWARD IS REALLY HARD
TO WATCH, HARD TO DIGEST, AND
SOME OF THAT SADNESS ABOUT THE
DAY KIND OF RETURNED IN
BIPARTISAN FASHION, WE SELL
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS BOTH
TALK ABOUT HOW
IT WAS SOMEWHAT DEVASTATING TO
REWATCH AND RELIVE ALL OF THOSE
MOMENTS, ESPECIALLY THE NEVER
BEFORE SEEN SECURITY FOOTAGE HOW
WE SAW HOW SO MANY OF THEM WERE
CLOSE TO THE RIOTERS, BUT THAT
WAS THE TONE FOR THE LAST TWO
DAYS. NOW THE TONE HAS SHIFTED
TO AN AREA THAT'S PROBABLY MORE
COMFORTABLE FOR SENATE
REPUBLICANS OR ANYONE WHO CAME
IN HERE WITH
A VOTE FOR ACQUITTAL ALREADY, IS
THAT NOW THE DISCUSSION IS ABOUT
YOU KNOW, FREE SPEECH AND THESE
OTHER PRECEDENTS THAT HIS TEAM
BROUGHT FORWARD IN SAYING THAT
HE IS PROTECTED BY FREE SPEECH
AND THESE REELS THAT WE SAW,
SEVERAL TIMES, THE SAME ONES,
SHOWING DIFFERENT POLITICIANS
SAYING THE WORD FIGHT, WITHOUT
KNOWING THE CONTEXT OF WHY THEY
WERE SAYING AT
THAT THESE WERE THE REELS THAT
WE KEPT SEEING OVER AND OVER
AGAIN AND SOME OF THOSE REELS
INCLUDED CELEBRITIES LIKE
MADONNA AND IN ONE OF THEM I SAW
JOHNNY DEPP, AND THEY ARE OF
COURSE NOT ELECTED OFFICIALS BUT
IT WAS TO, FOR THE DEFENSE TO
SHOW THAT YOU KNOW, THE LIBERAL
SIDE IN THE MEDIA AS WELL AS
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, ALSO USE
THIS TYPE OF
TOUGH RHETORIC, SO PRESIDENT
TRUMP SHOULD BE OFF THE HOOK, SO
REALLY, IT'S THE TONE THAT
CHANGED, NOT THE CIRCUMSTANCES,
THE TONE OF THE DISCUSSION TODAY
CHANGED A LITTLE BIT, AND THAT'S
PROBABLY GOING TO BE SOMETHING
THAT A LOT OF THE SENATE
REPUBLICANS ARE GOING TO FEEL
MORE COMFORTABLE ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; TRUMP'S LAWYERS USED
REPETITION TO DRIVE HOME THEIR
POINTS, AND THEY DID THIS QUITE
QUICKLY, JUST ABOUT THREE OR SO
HOURS OF TIME USED. LET'S LISTEN
TO TRUMP'S LEAD
ATTORNEY SYNTHESIZE THEIR
DEFENSE.
&gt;&gt; THIS TRIAL IS ABOUT FAR MORE
THAN PRESIDENT TRUMP. IT IS
ABOUT SILENCING AND BANNING THE
SPEECH THE MAJORITY DOES NOT
AGREE WITH. IT IS ABOUT
CANCELING 75 MILLION TRUMP
VOTERS, AND CRIMINALIZING
POLITICAL VIEWPOINTS. THAT IS
WHAT THIS TRIAL IS REALLY ABOUT.
IT'S THE ONLY EXISTENTIAL ISSUE
BEFORE US
AND ASKS FOR CONSTITUTIONAL
CANCEL CULTURE TO TAKE OVER IN
THE UNITED STATES SENATE.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, THERE IS SOME IRONY
HERE FOR A TRUMP LAWYER TO BE
TALKING ABOUT
NULLIFYING OR CANCELING THE
VOTES OF ALL TRUMP SUPPORTERS,
WHEN THE GOAL OF PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAS BEEN TO CANCEL OR NULLIFY
THE VOTES, THAT DIDN'T GO TO
HIM, AND THAT PART OF THE EFFORT
OF REPUBLICAN SENATORS, A
HANDFUL OF THEM, WAS TO TRY TO
DELEGITIMIZE OR STOP THE
CERTIFICATION OF THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE. IT'S INTERESTING TO SEE
HOW THEY TAKE THE FIGHT FROM
JUST ONE MAN OR ONE PERSON TO
ALL TRUMP VOTERS, AND EVERYONE
IS EVER SUPPORTED HIM
.
&gt;&gt; THOSE WORDS ARE VERY IRONIC,
AND THE COMPARISON IS IRONIC,
TOO, THAT NOW WE ARE TALKING
ABOUT THIS BEING A FAIR ELECTION
WHERE A NUMBER OF TRUMP
SUPPORTERS PUT IN THEIR VOTE
FAIRLY AND THIS WOULD BE THE
CONSTITUTIONAL CANCEL
CULTURE, THAT MIGHT BE A NEW
PHRASE THAT SOME SUPPORTERS OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP MIGHT USE BUT I
THINK THAT LINE, TO IS SOMETHING
WE SAW MR. CASTOR SPEAKING TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND TELLING
THEM, IF THE SENATE DOES THIS,
IF THEY VOTE TO CONVICT OR ANY
OF THESE REPUBLICANS VOTE TO
CONVICT, THAT'S TAKING AWAY YOUR
VOTE. AND THAT COULD BE A PRETTY
EFFECTIVE MESSAGE, TOO, TOO MANY
TRUMP SUPPORTERS WHO TO FEEL
THAT THEY HAVE HAD THINGS TAKEN
AWAY FROM THEM, SO I THINK THAT
WAS AN APPEAL OR TECHNIQUE TO
TALK TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt;
JAMES, HAVE WE GOTTEN ANY
ANSWERS OR INSIGHTS AS TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP STATE OF MIND OR
GOALS, IN THE FIRST HOURS AFTER
THE ATTACK?
&gt;&gt; NO, WE HAVEN'T, AND THAT IS
SUPER IMPORTANT. WHAT WAS TRUMP
THINKING?
WHY WASN'T HE QUICKER TO
RESPOND? WHY WASN'T HE INVOLVED
IN DISCUSSIONS, THERE WAS A LOT
OF FLATLY DENYING ALL MEDIA
REPORTS EVER INCLUDING FROM THE
POST AND THE TIMES AND FOX NEWS,
SAYING YOU CAN'T TRUST THE MEDIA
AT ONE POINT, THE TRUMP LAWYER
SAID, BUT WE HAVE SO MUCH
REPORTING FROM PEOPLE WHO WERE
AT THE WHITE HOUSE, PEOPLE WHO
WERE WITH TRUMP THAT DAY, THAT
HE WAS ENJOYING THE SHOW, THAT
HE WAS WATCHING IT ALL PLAY OUT
ON CABLE NEWS, THAT
HE DIDN'T WANT TO AND DID NOT
CALL MIKE PENCE TO CHECK ON HIM
OR HIS SAFETY, THAT HE WASN'T
INVOLVED IN CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
MOBILIZING THE NATIONAL GUARD,
SO BY TRYING TO GROUP ALL OF
THAT REPORTING AND JUST
DISMISSING IT OUT OF HAND, IS
SOMEHOW HEARSAY, HE DID NOT
RESPOND TO ANY OF THAT, AND THAT
IS POTENTIALLY PROBLEMATIC IN
TERMS OF TRYING TO WIN OVER
THESE WAVERING REPUBLICAN
SENATORS BECAUSE PEOPLE LIKE
BILL CASSIDY AND LISA MURKOWSKI
SAID, THEY WANT TO KNOW WHAT
TRUMP WAS DOING DURING THAT
MULTIHOUR WINDOW, AND THAT IS
ONE OF THE REASONS THAT
IT HAS SORT OF MADE SENSE,
PEOPLE ARGUE, TO HAVE THIS
TRIAL, IS TO ILLUMINATE WHAT
EXACTLY TRUMP WAS DOING DURING
THOSE CRITICAL HOURS, WHEN HELP
WAS DESPERATELY NEEDED, WHEN
DEMOCRACY ITSELF WAS UNDER
ATTACK AND THE PRESIDENT DID
NOTHING
.
&gt;&gt; IN DEFENDING THE PRESIDENT
SPEECH, DONALD TRUMP'S LAWYERS
MENTIONED THE BRANDENBURG TEST,
AND IN CASE YOU'RE NOT FAMILIAR
WITH THAT, LET'S TALK ABOUT IT A
LITTLE BIT, THAT TERM WAS
ESTABLISHED WITH THE COURT CASE
BRANDENBURG
VERSUS OHIO IN 1969, AND IT
BECAME A LEGAL GUIDELINE TO
DETERMINE WHEN INFLAMMATORY
SPEECH CAN BE RESTRICTED, SO THE
TEST DETERMINED THAT THE
GOVERNOR GOVERNOR OF THEM IT MAY
PROHIBIT SPEECH ADVOCATING THE
USE OF FORCE IF THE SPEECH MEETS
THE TEST. NUMBER 1, THE SPEECH
IS DIRECTED TO INCITING OR
PRODUCING IMMINENT LAWLESS
ACTION AND NUMBER 2, THE SPEECH
IS LIKELY TO
PRODUCE SUCH ACTION. LET'S TALK
ABOUT THE HISTORY OF THAT.
&gt;&gt; WHAT HAPPENED WAS IN 1969, OR
MAYBE A YEAR EARLIER,
THIS GUY IN OHIO, IN CINCINNATI,
HE WAS A MEMBER OF THE KU KLUX
KLAN AND HE INVITED A LOCAL TV
REPORTER TO COME TO HIM COME
WITH HIM TO A KLAN MEETING,
WHERE THEY WERE ALL IN HOODS,
AND THIS GUY GAVE THIS FIERY
SPEECH TALKING ABOUT IN A VERY
RACIST WAY, TAKING ON THE LOCAL
BLACK COMMUNITY. AND AS A RESULT
OF THE TELEVISION FOOTAGE, HE
WAS CHARGED WITH INCITING
VIOLENCE AGAINST
AFRICAN-AMERICANS.
AND WAS CONVICTED UNDER OHIO
LAW, AND THEN IT WAS APPEALED,
IRONICALLY, HIS LAWYERS WERE
FROM THE ACLU, A YOUNG ELINOR
HOLMES
, SHE DEFENDED HIM, THEY TOOK IT
TO THE SUPREME COURT AND THEY
WON, AND THEY SAID THAT THE BAR
SHOULD BE REALLY HIGH, THE FIRST
AMENDMENT IS IMPORTANT AND
PEOPLE SHOULD BE ABLE TO SAY
THINGS AND SO THE COURT AGREED,
THEY ENDED UP VACATING HIS
CONVICTION AND THEY CREATED THIS
TWO-PART TEST, THE SECOND PART
IS THE HARVEST, THAT IT LEADS TO
IMMINENT VIOLENCE. TRUMP'S
LAWYERS BROUGHT UP BRANDENBURG
TODAY, AND THEY HAD A GRAPHIC ON
THE SCREEN, THAT PUT THOSE TWO
PARTS OF THE TEST OUT, AND THE
LAWYER SAID IT DOESN'T EVEN MEET
PART ONE OF THE BRANDENBURG
TEST, WHICH IS, DID HE TRY TO
INCITE? WAS HE AIMING TO INCITE?
AND JAMIE RASKIN ARGUED AT SOME
LENGTH YESTERDAY THAT TRUMP
DIDN'T MEET BOTH PARTS OF THE
BRANDENBURG TEST. TRUMP'S
LAWYERS DID UNTIL WITH THE
SECOND PART OF THE STANDARD
BECAUSE
THEY SAID THE FIRST PART MADE IT
MOOT. RASKIN SAID IT DOESN'T
MATTER FROM VIOLATED THE
BRANDENBURG TEST OR NOT BECAUSE
HE'S PRESIDENT AND HE'S A PUBLIC
OFFICIAL. THE STANDARD IS
DIFFERENT THAN IF HE IS A
PRIVATE CITIZEN. HE NOTED HIS
OWN DAUGHTER IS A TEACHER AND
SHE COULD GET FIRED FOR MAKING
COMMENTS IN HER ROLE AS A PUBLIC
OFFICIAL AND THAT INTUITIVELY
EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT THE
PRESIDENT IS HELD TO A DIFFERENT
STANDARD. SO THERE IS AN OPEN
QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
UNDER THE LAW,
IF TRUMP WAS A PRIVATE CITIZEN,
HE COULD BE CHARGED AND
CONVICTED FOR INCITEMENT, AND
THERE ARE ACTUALLY SERIOUS
LAWYERS ON BOTH SIDES OF THAT
QUESTION. SOME WHO SAY, TO
ACKNOWLEDGE, THAT WHILE THEY
THINK TRUMP SHOULD BE CONVICTED
UNDER A COURT, IN A NORMAL COURT
RECEDING, TRUMP WOULD PROBABLY
NOT BE CONVICTED UNDER THE
BRANDENBURG CASE PRESIDENT FOR
INCITEMENT, JUST BECAUSE, HE WAS
A
MEETING BOTH PARTS OF THAT BUT
THERE ARE SCHOLARS WHO SAY, THE
SUPREME COURT VERY CLEARLY WOULD
HAVE INTENDED THERE TWO-PART
STANDARD TO APPLY TO THE KIND OF
SPEECH THAT TRUMP OFFERED
, AND IT MAKES SENSE THAT THE
TRUMP DEFENSE HAS GONE WITH THE
FREE-SPEECH ARGUMENT, THIS
PROBABLY IS THE STRONGEST
POSSIBLE LEGAL ARGUMENT
BUT AGAIN, WHAT IS IMPEACHABLE,
THIS CAME UP A LOT DURING THE
WHOLE UKRAINE AFFAIR, WHAT IS
ILLEGAL AND IMPEACHABLE ARE
DIFFERENT. THIS IS NOT TRUMP
BEING CHARGED IN THE COURT OF
LAW WITH INCITEMENT UNDER STATE
LAW, THIS IS TRUMP BEING CHARGED
WITH VIOLATING HIS OATH OF
OFFICE TO TAKE CARE, WHICH IS
THE WORDING OF THE CONSTITUTION
TO FAITHFULLY EXECUTE THE LAWS
OF THE UNITED STATES AND
DEMOCRATS THAT HIS SPEECH AND
CONDUCT THAT DAY MEANT THAT HE
FAILED TO UPHOLD HIS OATH.
&gt;&gt; AND YET, RHONDA, THERE ARE A
LOT OF LAWYERS IN THAT CHAMBER,
THERE ARE A LOT OF LAWYERS AND
LAW DEGREES AMONG SENATORS, AND
YOU KNOW, WHILE I'M READING OR
REPORTING ABOUT THIS PRESIDENT
AND REALLY LEARNING ABOUT THE
HISTORY AND DIGGING INTO IT, A
LOT OF PEOPLE IN THAT ROOM, THEY
GET THESE REFERENCES BECAUSE
THEY WENT TO SCHOOL AND HAVE LAW
DEGREES, SO IT'S INTERESTING TO
GET THEIR INSIGHT INTO HOW THEY
WAIVE THESE BARS, THAT THE
PROSECUTION AND THE DEFENSE ARE
TRYING TO HIT OR SAY THE
PRESIDENT DID NOT HIT.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT, MOST OF
CONGRESS, A MAJORITY OF MEMBERS
HAVE EITHER A LAW DEGREE OR
PRACTICE LAW BEFORE THEY CAME
INTO CONGRESS, SO, I'M SURE MANY
OF THESE TERMS, THESE PRECEDENTS
ARE FAMILIAR TO THEM BUT IT'S
INTERESTING, THE COMMENTS THAT
MANY OF THEM MAKE TO REPORTERS
WHO ARE THERE OUTSIDE IN THE
HALLWAY, AND WE NEED GO TO THE
MICROPHONE, NEAR THE SUBWAY
AREA, THEY ARE REALLY TALKING
ABOUT THE LAW.
AND THAT'S VERY INTERESTING TO
ME. MANY OF THEM HAVE LEGAL
EXPERIENCE, AND LEGAL
BACKGROUNDS AND YOU DON'T HEAR
THEM TALKING ABOUT THAT BUT
USUALLY HEAR THEM TALKING ABOUT
THE POLITICS OF THE ISSUE AND I
THINK THAT'S BECAUSE IT'S PART
OF THAT PARTISANSHIP, THAT
REALLY INTENSE PARTISANSHIP
THAT'S GOING ON RIGHT NOW ON THE
HILL AND THROUGHOUT OUR PUBLIC,
WE ARE AT A VERY HIGHLY
POLARIZED LEVEL AND THEY KNOW
THOSE ARE THE AREAS THAT THEY
ARE STICKING TO RIGHT NOW, SO IT
IS INTERESTING TO THINK ABOUT
WHAT THEY MIGHT BE THINKING WHEN
THEY ARE HEARING BOTH SIDES
ARGUE CERTAIN PRECEDENTS IS,
WITH JAMIE RASKIN AND WE'VE
NOTED THIS BEFORE, THAT HE IS A
CONSTITUTIONAL LAWYER BY TRADE
AND TAUGHT AT AMERICAN
UNIVERSITY FOR YEARS BEFORE
COMING TO CONGRESS AS A
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW EXPERT, SO,
THAT WAS LIKELY ONE OF THE
REASONS HE WAS CHOSEN AS THE
LEAD IN PIZZA MANAGERS BECAUSE
OF HIS KNOWLEDGE. AND ALSO, IT'S
JUST SO INTERESTING TO SEE
SENATOR CRUZ AND SENATOR GRAHAM
GO IN AND OUT OF THAT ROOM WITH
TRUMP'S LAWYERS, TOO, THOSE TWO
MEN ARE ALSO LAWYERS BY TRADE
AND I'M NOT SURE IF THEY ARE
GOING OVER ANY SORT OF LEGAL
PROCESS IN THAT ROOM BUT IT'S
STUNNING TO SEE THAT BECAUSE IF
YOU THINK ABOUT IT, IF IT WAS
A CRIMINAL CASE, TO SEE JURORS
MEET WITH THE DEFENSE, AT LENGTH
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS, THAT
CERTAINLY WOULD RAISE EYEBROWS
BUT THAT ALSO SHOWS YOU THIS IS
NOT A CRIMINAL PROCEEDING, THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT COMES OUT OF
OUR POLITICS AND IS IN OUR
CONSTITUTION.
&gt;&gt;
JAMES, YOU WERE TALKING EARLIER
ABOUT SORT OF THE BACKGROUND OF
SOMEONE LIKE LINDSEY GRAHAM, AND
WHAT HE'S ABLE TO OFFER THE
TRUMP LAWYERS BUT NOT ONLY CAN
THE SORT OF CONSULT ABOUT PAST
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS, THEY KNEW
THE ROOM, THEY KNOW THE
REPUBLICAN BODY, SO THEY CAN BE
GIVING INSIGHT INTO THESE
ATTORNEYS WHO ARE NOT USED TO
BEING
IN FRONT OF A JURY LIKE THIS,
AND NOT USED TO BEING ON THE
NATIONAL STAGE LIKE THIS, THEY
CAN GIVE THEM A SENSE OF HOW
REPUBLICANS WILL INTERPRET
ARGUMENTS, WHAT REPUBLICANS ARE
CRAVING TO HEAR OR DON'T WANT TO
HEAR, WHAT MIGHT STICK AND WHAT
MIGHT NOT STICK.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT, AND,
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ABOUT
ULTIMATELY, THEY JUST NEED TO
SECURE 37 VOTES FOR ACQUITTAL,
AND GRAHAM AND CRUISE WHO HAVE
THAT TIME IN AT LOGGERHEADS BOTH
SERVE TOGETHER ON A COUPLE OF
THE SAME COMMITTEES ACTUALLY,
AND THEY BOTH KIND OF UNDERSTAND
DIFFERENT ELEMENTS OF THE
CONFERENCE AND BOTH OF THEM
UNDERSTAND THE DYNAMIC OF TRYING
TO PLACATE TRUMP BUT ALSO APPEAL
TO THE SENATORS AND THE BASE AND
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT IS
INTERESTING, IN THE ARGUMENT
THAT THE TRUMP LAWYERS MADE AS
THEY TALKED ABOUT TWO OTHER
SUPREME COURT PRECEDENTS IS, AND
THOSE WERE SURPRISING AND THOSE
DIDN'T COME UP IN THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT CASE BECAUSE THEY
ARE NOT PARTICULARLY RELEVANT,
AND SO YOU MIGHT HAVE SOMEONE
LIKE GRAHAM OR CRUISE SAYING,
LAY OFF ON MAKING THAT THE
CENTERPIECE OF WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING BECAUSE THAT'S JUST NOT
GOING TO APPEAL TO SOMEONE LIKE
BILL CASSIDY OR PAT TOOMEY,
INSTEAD, FOCUS MORE ON
X OR Y, SO THAT'S WHAT I ASSUME
THOSE CONVERSATIONS ARE
HAPPENING, AND AGAIN, IT'S ALSO
POSSIBLE THAT THEY ARE LINING UP
SOME QUESTIONS, SOME SOFTBALL
QUESTIONS, SO THAT IT'S NOT JUST
KIND OF A LINEUP OF HARD-HITTING
TOUGH THINGS AIMED AT THE
PRESIDENTS DEFENSE TEAM BUT I
ASSUME THERE WILL BE SOME
SOFTBALL THAT SOME OF THE
PRESIDENTS ALLIES THROW INTO
SORT OF HELP CHANGE THE
TONE AND THE TENOR IN THE ROOM
SO THAT IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE IT
DID THE DAY BEFORE YESTERDAY
WHEN A LOT OF EVEN THE PRESENCE
MOST ARDENT SUPPORTERS
WERE SITTING IN A KIND OF
EMOTIONAL WAY.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE IS BACK IN LET'S
GO BACK INTO THE CHAMBER FOR THE
QUESTION PERIOD.
&gt;&gt; PURSUANT TO THE PROVISION
, THE SENATE HAS PROVIDED UP TO
FOUR HOURS DURING WHICH SENATORS
MAY SUBMIT QUESTIONS IN WRITING,
DIRECTED EITHER TO THE MANAGERS
OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
OR A COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT. THE MAJORITY LEADER
.
&gt;&gt; I ASK UNANIMOUS CONSENT THAT
THE ANSWERS WITHIN THE FOUR HOUR
QUESTION PERIOD
BE LIMITED TO FIVE MINUTES EACH.
AND IF THE QUESTIONS ARE
DIRECTED TO BOTH PARTIES, THE
TIME SPEEDILY DIVIDED,
FURTHERMORE, THAT QUESTIONS
ALTERNATE SIDES FOR POSING
QUESTIONS, FOR AS LONG AS BOTH
SIDES HAVE QUESTIONS?
&gt;&gt; SO ORDERED.
&gt;&gt;
I HAVE A QUESTION FOR THE DESK.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR WILL SUBMIT IT.
&gt;&gt; THE QUESTION FROM SENATOR
SCHUMER AND SENATOR FEINSTEIN IS
DIRECTED TO THE HOUSE MANAGERS,
THE CLERK WILL READ IT.
&gt;&gt; ISN'T IT THE CASE THAT THE
VIOLENT ATTACK AND SIEGE ON THE
CAPITOL ON JANUARY 6  WOULD NOT
HAVE HAPPENED IF NOT FOR THE
CONDUCT OF PRESIDENT TRUMP?
&gt;&gt; TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION
DIRECTLY, DONALD TRUMP SUMMONED
THE MOP, HE SUMMONED THE MOB AND
LIT THE FLAME. EVERYTHING THAT
FOLLOWED WAS BECAUSE OF HIS
DOING
. AND ALTHOUGH HE COULD HAVE
IMMEDIATELY AND FORCEFULLY
INTERVENED TO STOP THE VIOLENCE,
HE NEVER DID. IN OTHER WORDS,
THIS VIOLENT BUDDY INSURRECTION
THAT OCCURRED ON JANUARY 6,
WOULD NOT HAVE OCCURRED BUT FOR
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
THE EVIDENCE WE PRESENTED AT
TRIAL MAKES THIS ABSOLUTELY
CLEAR. THIS ATTACK AS WE SAID,
DIDN'T COME FROM ONE RANDOM
SPEECH AND IT DIDN'T HAPPEN BY
ACCIDENT, AND THAT MOB DIDN'T
COME OUT OF THIN AIR. BEFORE THE
ELECTION, DONALD TRUMP SPREAD
LIE AFTER LIE ABOUT POTENTIAL
FRAUD,
AN ELECTION THAT HADN'T EVEN
HAPPENED YET, MONTHS BEFORE THE
ELECTION TOOK PLACE, HE WAS
SAYING IT WAS RIGGED, THAT IT
WAS GOING TO BE STOLEN. ALL TO
MAKE HIS SUPPORTERS BELIEVE THAT
THE ONLY WAY HE WAS GOING TO
LOSE IS IF THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN, IF IT WAS RIGGED.
AND WHEN HE DID LOSE, HE SPENT
WEEK AFTER WEEK INCITING HIS
SUPPORTERS TO BELIEVE THAT THEIR
VOTES HAD BEEN STOLEN AND THAT
THE ELECTION WAS FRAUDULENT AND
THAT IT WAS THERE PATRIOTIC DUTY
TO FIGHT LIKE HELL TO FIGHT THE
STEEL, AND TAKE THEIR COUNTRY
BACK. AND REMEMBER, THIS IS IN
THE UNITED STATES WHERE OUR VOTE
IS HER VOICE. YOU TELL SOMEBODY
THAT AN ELECTION VICTORY IS
BEING STOLEN FROM THEM, THAT IS
A COMBUSTIBLE SITUATION
. AND HE GAVE THEM CLEAR
DIRECTION ON HOW TO DEAL WITH
THAT. FOR EXAMPLE, ON DECEMBER
19, 18 DAYS PRIOR TO JANUARY 6,
PRESIDENT TRUMP TOLD THEM HOW
AND WHERE TO FIGHT FOR HIM. HE
FIRST ISSUED HIS CALL TO ACTION
FOR JANUARY 6. THIS WAS A SAVE
THE DATE, SENT 18 DAYS BEFORE
THE EVENT ON JANUARY 6. AND IT
WASN'T JUST A CASUAL ONE-OFF
REFERENCE. OR A SINGULAR
INVITATION, FOR THE NEXT EIGHT
TEEN DAYS, HE DIRECTED ALL OF
THE RAGE HE HAD DECIDED TO
JANUARY 6. AND THAT WAS FOR HIM,
WHAT HE SAW AS HIS LAST CHANCE
TO STOP THE TRANSFER OF POWER,
TO STOP FROM LOSING THE
PRESIDENCY.
AND HE SAID THINGS LIKE QUOTE,
FIGHT TILL THE DEATH, AND
JANUARY 6 WOULD BE A WILD AND
HISTORIC DAY.
AND THIS WAS WORKING, THEY GOT
THE MESSAGE, IN THE DAYS LEADING
UP TO THE ATTACK, REPORT AFTER
REPORT, SOCIAL MEDIA POST AFTER
SOCIAL MEDIA POST, CONFIRMED
THAT THESE INSURGENTS WERE
PLANNING ARMED VIOLENCE, BUT
THEY WERE PLANNING IT BECAUSE HE
HAD BEEN PRIMING THEM, BECAUSE
HE HAD BEEN CAMPING THEM UP,
THAT'S WHY THEY WERE PLANNING
IT.
THESE POSTS, CONFIRMED BY
REPORTS FROM THE FBI AND CAPITOL
POLICE, MADE CLEAR THAT THESE
INSURGENTS WERE PLANNING TO
CARRY WEAPONS, INCLUDING GUNS,
TO TARGET THE CAPITOL ITSELF .
AND YET, DONALD TRUMP FROM
JANUARY 5 TWO THE MORNING OF THE
SPEECH TWEETED 34 TIMES
URGING HIS SUPPORTERS TO GET
READY TO STOP THE STEEL. HE EVEN
ON THE EVE OF THE ATTACK WARNED
US THAT IT WAS COMING. HE WARNED
US THAT THOUSANDS WERE
DESCENDING INTO D.C. AND WOULD
NOT TAKE IT ANYMORE. WHEN I GOT
THERE AT THE SAVE AMERICA MERIT,
HE TOLD THEM AGAIN IN THAT
SPEECH EXACTLY WHAT TO DO. HIS
LAWYER OPENED WITH, "LET'S HAVE
A TRIAL BY COMBAT. THAT WAS RUDY
GIULIANI. DONALD TRUMP THAT
MESSAGE HOME. HE PRAISED RUDY
GIULIANI AS A FIGHTER. PRESIDENT
TRUMP USED
THE WORD FIGHT OR FIGHTING 20
TIMES IN THAT SPEECH. REMEMBER,
YOU HAVE JUST TOLD THESE PEOPLE,
THESE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE THAT
SOMEBODY HAS STOLEN YOUR
ELECTION, VICTORY, YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO GET THE PRESIDENT THAT
YOU LOVE. SENATORS, THAT IS AND
PROBABLY COMBUSTIBLE SITUATION
WHEN PEOPLE ARE AND THEY HAVE
BEEN SAYING THEY ARE MAD AS AND
THEY ARE NOT GOING TO TAKE IT
ANYMORE. HE LOOKED OUT TO A SEA
OF THOUSANDS, SOME WEARING BODY
ARMOR, HELMETS, HOLDING STICKS
AND FLAGPOLES, SOME OF WHICH
THEY WOULD LATER USED TO BEAT
CAPITOL POLICE, AND TOLD THEM
THAT THEY COULD PLAY BY
DIFFERENT RULES. PLAY BY
DIFFERENT RULES. HE EVEN AT ONE
POINT, QUITE LITERALLY, POINTED
TO THE CAPITOL AS HE TOLD THEM
TO FIGHT LIKE . AFTER THE
ATTACK, YOU KNOW, WE HAVE SHOWN
CLEARLY THAT ONCE THE ATTACK
BEGAN TO INSURGENTS AFTER
INSURGENT MADE CLEAR
THEY WERE FOLLOWING THE
PRESIDENT'S ORDERS. YOU SAW US
PRESENT THAT EVIDENCE OF THE
INSURGENTS WHO WERE THERE THAT
IS A WHO SAID THEY CAME BECAUSE
OF THE PRESIDENT ASKED THEM TO
COME. I WAS HERE AT HIS
INVITATION. YOU SAW THAT OF THE
FOLKS THAT WERE IN THE CAPITOL
THAT DAY.
&gt;&gt; TIME HAS EXPIRED.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE FOR THE QUESTIONS?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR
SAYS: HAVE A QUESTION?
&gt;&gt; LIKE YOU VERY MUCH, MR.
PRESIDENT. I SENT A QUESTION TO
THE DESK ON BEHALF OF MYSELF,
SENATOR CRUZ, MARSHALL, AND
KRAMER TO COUNSEL.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR GRANDMA FOR HIMSELF,
SENATOR CRUZ WAS COMMERCIAL,
SENATOR KRAMER SUBMITS A
QUESTION FOR THE COUNCIL FOR
DONALD TRUMP. THE CLERK WILL
READ IT.
&gt;&gt; HAS A POLITICIAN RAISING BILL
FOR LETTERS ENCOURAGE MORE
RIOTING?
&gt;&gt; COUNSEL HAS FIVE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; HE HAS.
&gt;&gt; THIS COUNSEL YIELD THE REST
OF THEIR TIME? CONSISTING IS
YIELDED BACK. ARE THERE OTHER
QUESTIONS?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT
.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM GEORGIA.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE A QUESTION FOR THE
DESK.
&gt;&gt; SEND IT TO THE TASK.
THE SENATOR FROM GEORGIA,
SENATOR
WARNOCK HAD A QUESTION FOR THE
HOUSE MANAGERS. THE CLERK WILL
REDO THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; IS IT TRUE OR FALSE THAT IN
THE MONTHS LEADING UP TO JANUARY
6th, DOZENS OF COURTS, INCLUDING
STATE AND FEDERAL COURTS IN
GEORGIA REJECTED PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S CAMPAIGNS EFFORTS TO
OVERTURN HIS LOSS TO JOE BIDEN?
&gt;&gt; HOUSE MANAGERS
RECOGNIZED FOR FIVE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, SENATORS, THAT
IS TRUE. THAT IS TRUE.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR, THOUGH, THAT
WE HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO PROBLEM
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP HAVING
PURSUED HIS BELIEF THAT THE
ELECTION WAS BEING STOLEN
OR THAT THERE WAS FRAUD OR
CORRUPTION OR
UNCONSTITUTIONALITY. WE HAVE NO
PROBLEM AT ALL WITH HIM GOING TO
COURT TO DO IT AND HE DID AND HE
LOST IN 61 STRAIGHT CASES IN
FEDERAL COURT IN STATE COURT, IN
LOVE WITH COURTS IN THE LAND, IN
THE U.S. SUPREME COURT. HE
LOST IT. HE LOST IN COURT IN
PENNSYLVANIA, ARIZONA, GEORGIA,
MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA, NEVADA,
WISCONSIN, ALL OF THEM SAID THE
SAME THING. THEY COULDN'T FIND
ANY CORRUPTION, THEY COULDN'T
FIND
ANY FRAUD, CERTAINLY NOTHING
RISING TO A MATERIAL LEVEL THAT
WOULD ALTER THE OUTCOME OF ANY
OF THE ELECTIONS AND THERE WAS
NO UNCONSTITUTIONALITY. THAT IS
THE AMERICAN SYSTEM. SO IT IS
HARD TO IMAGINE HIM CUTTING MORE
DUE PROCESS THAN THAT IN
PURSUING WHAT HAS COME TO BE
KNOWN POPULARLY AS THE BIG LIE,
THE IDEA THAT SOMEHOW THE
ELECTION WAS BEING STOLEN FROM
HIM. WE HAVE NO PROBLEM WITH THE
FACT THAT HE WENT TO COURT TO DO
ALL OF THOSE THINGS BUT NOTICE,
NUMBER ONE, THE BIG LIE WAS
REFUTED, DEVASTATED, AND
DEMOLISHED IN FEDERAL AND STATE
COURTS ACROSS THE LAND,
INCLUDING BY EIGHT JUDGES
APPOINTED BY PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP HIMSELF. WE QUOTED EARLIER
IN THE CASE WHAT HAPPENED IN
PENNSYLVANIA WHERE U.S. DISTRICT
COURT JUDGE MATTHEW BRANDT SAID,
"IN THE UNITED STATES, THE COURT
HAS BEEN PRESENTED RESTRAINED
LEGAL ARGUMENTS WITHOUT MERIT
AND SPECULATIVE ACCUSATIONS
. IN THE U.S., THIS CANNOT
JUSTIFY THE DISENFRANCHISEMENT
OF A SINGLE FOLDER, LET ALONE
ALL THE VOTERS OF ITS SIX MOST
POPULOUS STATE, OUR PEOPLE,
LAWS, AND INSTITUTIONS DEMAND
MORE." THEN IT WENT UP TO
A JUDGE WHO IS A 12 APPOINTEE,
WHO IS PART OF THE APPEALS COURT
PANEL. HE SAID, "THE CAMPAIGN'S
CLAIMS HAVE NO MERIT. THE NUMBER
OF
BALLOTS IT SPECIFICALLY
CHALLENGES IS FAR SMALLER THAN
THE MARGIN OF VICTORY AND IT
NEVER CLAIMS OF FRAUD OR THAT
ANY VOTES WERE CAST BY ILLEGAL
VOTERS' WITH MILLIONS OF MAIL-IN
BALLOTS WOULD BE DRASTIC AND
UNPRECEDENTED DISENFRANCHISING A
HUGE SWATHS OF THE ELECTORATE
AND UPSETTING ON THE DOWN BALLOT
RACES TOO, WHICH INCIDENTALLY
WEREN'T BEING CHALLENGED, EVEN
THOUGH IT WAS THE EXACT SAME
BALLOT." SO THE PROBLEM WAS WHEN
THE PRESIDENT WENT FROM HIS
JUDICIAL COMBAT, WHICH WAS FINE,
TOO INTIMIDATING AND BULLYING
STATE ELECTION OFFICIALS AND
STATE LEGISLATORS AND THEN
FINALLY
, AS A REPRESENTATIVE CHENEY
SAID, SUMMONING A MILD,
ASSEMBLING A MOMENT, AND
LIGHTING THE MATCH. FOR AN
INSURRECTION AGAINST
THE UNION. WHEN HE CROSSED OVER
FROM NONVIOLENT MEANS, NO MATTER
HOW RIDICULOUS OR ABSURD, THAT
IS FINE, HE IS EXERCISING HIS
RIGHT TO INCITING VIOLENCE. THAT
IS WHAT THIS TRIAL IS ABOUT. WE
HEARD VERY LITTLE OF THAT FROM
THE PRESENTATION OF THE
PRESIDENT'S LAWYERS. THEY REALLY
DIDN'T ADDRESS THE FACT OF THE
CASE AT ALL. THERE WERE A COUPLE
PROPAGANDA RULES ABOUT
DEMOCRATIC POLITICIANS THAT
WOULD BE EXCLUDED IN ANY COURT
IN THE LAND. THEY TALK ABOUT THE
RULES OF EVIDENCE. ALL THAT WAS
TOTALLY IRRELEVANT TO THE CASE
BEFORE US. WHATEVER WE THINK
ABOUT IT, IT IS IRRELEVANT. WE
WILL BE HAPPY TO ADDRESS THE
FIRST AMENDMENT ARGUMENTS TOO.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM MAINE.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, I SENT A
QUESTION TO THE DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE QUESTION IS FROM SENATOR
COLLINS AND SENATOR MURKOWSKI.
IT IS FOR THE COUNSEL FOR THE
FORMER PRESIDENT. CLERK WILL
READ.
&gt;&gt;
EXACTLY WHEN DID PRESIDENT TRUMP
LEARN OF THE BREACH OF THE
CAPITOL? WHAT SPECIFIC ACTIONS
DID HE TAKE TO BRING THE RIOTING
TO AN END AND WHEN DID HE TAKE
THEM? PLEASE BE AS DETAILED AS
POSSIBLE.
&gt;&gt; CAN THE CLERK READ THAT
QUESTION AGAIN?
&gt;&gt; EXACTLY WHEN DID PRESIDENT
TRUMP LEARN OF THE BREACH OF THE
CAPITOL AND WHAT SPECIFIC
ACTIONS
DID HE TAKE TO BRING THE RIOTING
TO AN END AND WHEN DID HE TAKE
THEM? PLEASE BE AS DETAILED AS
POSSIBLE.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE GIVEN
US ABSOLUTELY
NO EVIDENCE TO THAT QUESTION. WE
ARE ABLE TO PIECE TOGETHER A
TIMELINE AND IT GOES ALL THE WAY
BACK TO THE DECEMBER 31st,
JANUARY 2nd, THERE IS A LOT OF
INTERACTION BETWEEN THE
AUTHORITIES AND GETTING FOLKS TO
HAVE SECURITY BEFORE HAND ON THE
DAY. WE HAVE A TWEET AT 2:38. IT
WAS CERTAINLY SOMETIME BEFORE
THEN
WITH THE RUSH TO BRING THIS
IMPEACHMENT, THERE HAS BEEN
ABSOLUTELY NO INVESTIGATION INTO
THAT. THAT IS THE PROBLEM WITH
THIS ENTIRE PROCEEDING. THE
HOUSE MANAGERS DID ZERO
INVESTIGATION AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE DESERVE A LOT BETTER THAN
COMING IN HERE WITH NO EVIDENCE,
HEARSAY ON TOP OF HEARSAY
OF THE PORTS THAT ARE OF
HEARSAY.
DUE PROCESS IS REQUIRED HERE.
THAT WAS DENIED.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM NEVADA.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, I SEND A
QUESTION TO THE DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM NEVADA,
SENATOR ROSEN
SUBMITS A QUESTION FOR THE HOUSE
MANAGERS
. THE CLERK WILL READ IT.
&gt;&gt; ON JANUARY 6th, THE
ANTI-SOMATIC PROUD BOYS GROUP
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD TOLD TO
STANDBY LAID SIEGE TO THE
CAPITOL ALONGSIDE OTHER RIOTERS,
INCLUDING ONE WEARING A CAMP ARE
SWEATS SHIRT
. IS THERE EVIDENCE THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP KNEW OR SHOULD
HAVE KNOWN THAT HIS TOLERANCE OF
ANTI-SOMATIC SPEECH, HATE SPEECH
, COMBINED WITH HIS OWN RHETORIC
COULD INCITE TO THE KIND OF
VIOLENCE WE SAW ON JANUARY 6th?
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT, SENATORS, DONALD
TRUMP HAS A LONG HISTORY
OF APPRAISING AND ENCOURAGING
VIOLENCE, AS USUAL. HE HAS
ESPOUSED HATEFUL RHETORIC
HIMSELF. HE HAS NOT JUST
TOLERATED IT BUT HE HAS
ENCOURAGED HATEFUL SPEECH BY
OTHERS. HE HAS REFUSED, AS YOU
SAW IN THE SEPTEMBER DEBATE,
THAT INTERVIEW, TO CONDEMN
EXTREMIST AND WHITE SUPREME
ASSIST GROUPS LIKE THE PROUD
BOYS. HE HAS HAD EVERY
OPPORTUNITY ENCOURAGED AND
CULTIVATED ACTUAL VIOLENCE BY
THESE GROUPS. YES, HE HAS
ENCOURAGED ACTUAL VIOLENCE, NOT
JUST THE WORD FIGHT. HE TOLD
GROUPS LIKE THE PROUD BOYS, WHO
HAD BEATEN PEOPLE WITH BASEBALL
BATS TO STANDBY. WHEN HIS
SUPPORTERS IN THE 50 CAR CARAVAN
TRIED TO DRIVE A BUS OF BIDEN
CAMPAIGN WORKERS OF THE WORLD,
HE TWEETED A VIDEO OF THAT
INCIDENT WITH FIGHT MUSIC
ATTACHED TO IT"
, "I LOVE TEXAS." WHEN HIS
SUPPORTERS AND DEATH THREATS TO
THE REPUBLICAN SECRETARY OF
STATE IN GEORGIA, HE RESPONDED
BY CALLING MR.
RAFFENSBERGER AN ENEMY OF THE
STATE AFTER HE KNEW OF THOSE
DEATH THREATS. ON THE MORNING OF
THE SECOND MILLION MAGA MARCH
ERUPTED IN VIOLENCE AND BURNED
TUTORS, HE BEGAN THE DAY WITH
THE TREAT, "WE HAVE JUST BEGUN
TO FIGHT." I WANT TO BE CLEAR
THAT DONALD TRUMP IS NOT ON
TRIAL FOR THOSE STATEMENTS.
HOWEVER, THAT HATEFUL, VIOLENT
AND INAPPROPRIATE THEY MAY BE.
BUT HIS STATEMENTS, THE
PRESIDENT'S STATEMENTS MAKE
ABSOLUTELY CLEAR THREE IMPORTANT
POINTS FOR OUR CASE. FIRST
, PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD A PATTERN
AND PRACTICE OF PRAISING AND
ENCOURAGING VIOLENCE
, NEVER CONDEMNING IT. IT IS NOT
A COINCIDENCE THAT THOSE VERY
SAME PEOPLE, PROUD BOYS,
ORGANIZERS OF THE TRUMP CARAVAN,
SUPPORTERS AND SPEAKERS OF THE
SECOND MILLION MAGA MARCH ALSO
UP ON JANUARY 6th  TWO AN EVENT
THAT HE HAD ORGANIZED
WITH THOSE SAME INDIVIDUALS WHO
HAD ORGANIZED THAT VIOLENT
ATTACK. SECOND, HIS BEHAVIOR IS
DIFFERENT. IT IS NOT JUST THAT
IT WAS A COMMENT BY AN OFFICIAL
TO FIGHT FOR A CAUSE FOR THIS IS
MONTHS OF CULTIVATING A BASE OF
PEOPLE WHO WERE VIOLENT, NOT
POTENTIALLY VIOLENT, BUT WERE
VIOLENT. AND THAT THE PRIOR
CONDUCT OF BOTH HELPED HIM
CULTIVATE THE VERY GROUP OF
PEOPLE THAT ATTACKED US BUT IT
ALSO SHOWS CLEARLY THAT HE HAD
THAT GROUP ASSEMBLED AND ALL THE
PUBLIC REPORTS READY TO ATTACK,
HE DOES BRUTALLY ENCOURAGE THEM
TO ENGAGE IN VIOLENCE ON JANUARY
6th. PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD SPENT
MONTHS CALLING HIS SUPPORTERS TO
A MARCH ON A SPECIFIC DAY, AT A
SPECIFIC TIME, FOR A SPECIFIC
PURPOSE
. WHAT ELSE WERE THEY GOING TO
DO TO STOP THE CERTIFICATION OF
THE ELECTION ON THAT DAY BUT TO
STOP YOU? BUT TO STOP
PHYSICALLY.
THERE IS NO OTHER WAY,
PARTICULARLY AFTER HIS VICE
PRESIDENT SAID THAT HE WOULD
REFUSE TO DO WHAT THE PRESIDENT
ASKED. THE POINT IS THIS. BY THE
TIME YOU CALL THE CAVALRY
OF HIS THOUSANDS OF SUPPORTERS
ON JANUARY 6th, AN EVENT HE HAD
INVITED THEM TO, HE HAD EVERY
REASON TO KNOW THAT THEY WERE
ARMED, VIOLENT, AND READY TO
ACTUALLY FIGHT.
WAS CALLING AND THE VIOLENCE
THEY WERE CAPABLE OF. HE STILL
GAVE HIS MARCHING ORDERS TO GO
TO THE CAPITOL AND
,  "FIGHT LIKE TO STOP THE STEAL
." HOW ELSE WAS THAT GOING TO
HAPPEN? IF THEY HAD STAYED AT
THE ELLIPSE, MAYBE IT WOULD HAVE
JUST BEEN TO FIGHT IN PROTEST
WITH THEIR WORDS. BUT TO COME TO
THE CAPITOL? THAT IS WHY THIS IS
DIFFERENT AND THAT IS WHY HE
MUST BE CONVICTED AND
ACQUITTED.
&gt;&gt; DISQUALIFIED.
&gt;&gt; AND DISQUALIFIED.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
ON BEHALF OF SENATOR SCOTT OF
SOUTH CAROLINA AND MYSELF, WE
WOULD LIKE TO SUBMIT A QUESTION
TO THE DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM TENNESSEE SO
SUBMITTED.
THE QUESTION IS FOR COUNSEL FOR
THE FORMER PRESIDENT FROM
SENATORS HAGGERTY AND SCOTT OF
SOUTH CAROLINA. THE CLERK WILL
READ THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; GIVEN THAT MORE THAN 200
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN CHARGED FOR
THEIR CONDUCT AT THE CAPITOL ON
JANUARY 6th
, THAT OUR JUSTICE SYSTEM IS
WORKING TO HOLD THE APPROPRIATE
PERSONS ACCOUNTABLE, AND THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS NO LONGER IN
OFFICE ISN'T THIS SIMPLY A
LITTLE SHOW TRIAL THAT IS
DESIGNED TO DISCREDIT PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND HIS POLICIES AND SHAME
THE 74 MILLION AMERICANS WHO
VOTED FOR HIM?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SENATORS FOR THAT
QUESTION. THAT IS PRECISELY WHAT
THE 45th PRESIDENT BELIEVES THAT
THE SCATTERING IS ABOUT. WE
BELIEVE IN LAW AND ORDER AND
TRUST THAT THE FEDERAL
AUTHORITIES THAT ARE CONDUCTING
INVESTIGATIONS AND PROSECUTIONS
AGAINST THE CRIMINALS THAT
INVADED THIS BUILDING WILL
CONTINUE THEIR WORK AND BE AS
AGGRESSIVE AND THOROUGH AS WE
KNOW THEM TO ALWAYS BE AND THAT
THEY WILL CONTINUE TO IDENTIFY
THOSE THAT ENTERED THE INNER
SANCTUM OF OUR GOVERNMENT AND
DESECRATED IT. THE 44th
PRESIDENT NO LONGER HOLDS OFFICE
. THERE IS NO SANCTION AVAILABLE
UNDER THE CONSTITUTION, IN OUR
VIEW, FOR HIM TO BE REMOVED FROM
OFFICE THAT HE NO LONGER HOLDS.
THE ONLY LOGICAL CONCLUSION IS
THAT THE PURPOSE OF THIS
GATHERING IS TO EMBARRASS THE
45th PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES AND IN SOME WAY TRY TO
CREATE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
SENATORS TO SUGGEST
THAT HE SHOULD NOT BE PERMITTED
TO HOLD OFFICE IN THE FUTURE, OR
AT THE VERY LEAST, PUBLICIZE
THIS THROUGHOUT THE LAND TO TRY
TO DAMAGE HIS ABILITY TO RUN FOR
OFFICE WHEN, AND IF HE IS
ACQUITTED. AT THE SAME TIME,
TELL THE 74 MILLION PEOPLE WHO
VOTED FOR HIM THAT THEIR CHOICE
WAS THE WRONG CHOICE.
I BELIEVE THAT THIS IS A
DIVISIVE WAY OF GOING ABOUT
HANDLING IMPEACHMENT AND IT
DENIGRATES THE GREAT SOLEMNITY
THAT SHOULD ATTACH TO SUCH
PROCEEDINGS. I YIELD THE
REMAINDER OF MY TIME, AS MR.
PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR FROM MASSACHUSETTS.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, I SENT A
QUESTION TO THE DESK FOR THE
HOUSE MANAGERS BECAUSE THE
PRESIDENT'S LAWYERS DID NOT
ANSWER THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR WILL SEND THE
QUESTION. DEBATE IS NOT ALLOWED.
THE QUESTION IS FROM SENATOR
MARKEY WITH SENATOR DUCKWORTH .
THE CLERK WILL READ THE
QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; EXACTLY WHEN DID THE
PRESIDENT
LEARN OF THE BREACH AT THE
CAPITOL AND WHAT STEPS DID HE
TAKE TO ADDRESS THE VIOLENCE?
PLEASE BE AS DETAILED AS
POSSIBLE.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU WISH TO RESPOND?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, SENATORS, THIS
ATTACK WAS ON LIVE TV, ON ALL
MAJOR NETWORKS IN REAL TIME. THE
PRESIDENT
, AS PRESIDENT, HAS ACCESS TO
INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION,
INCLUDING REPORTS FROM INSIDE
THE CAPITOL. HE KNEW THE
VIOLENCE THAT WAS UNDERWAY
. HE KNEW THE SEVERITY OF THE
THREATS, AND MOST IMPORTANTLY,
HE KNEW THAT CAPITOL POLICE WERE
OVERWHELMINGLY OUTNUMBERED AND
IN A FIGHT FOR THEIR LIVES
AGAINST THOUSANDS OF INSURGENTS
WITH WEAPONS. WE KNOW HE KNEW
THAT WE KNOW THAT HE DID NOT
SEND ANY INDIVIDUALS, WE DID NOT
HEAR ANY TWEETS, WE DID NOT HEAR
HIM TELL THOSE INDIVIDUALS TO
STOP, THIS IS WRONG. YOU MUST GO
BACK. WE DID NOT HEAR THAT.
WHAT ELSE DID THE PRESIDENT DO?
WE ARE UNCLEAR. WE. LEAVE IT WAS
A DERELICTION OF HIS DUTY AND
THAT WAS BECAUSE HE WAS THE ONE
WHO HAD CAUSED THEM TO COME TO
THE CAPITOL AND THEY WERE DOING
WITH
HE ASKED THEM TO DO. THERE WAS
NO NEED FOR HIM TO STOP THEM
FROM WHAT THEY WERE ENGAGED IN.
ONE OF THE THINGS
I WOULD LIKE TO ASK, WE STILL
HAVE NOT HEARD HIM POST TO ALL
THE QUESTIONS THAT WERE RAISED
BY MINIATURE RASKIN IN HIS
CLOSING ARGUMENT  WHY DID THE
PRESIDENT TRUMP NOT TELL THE
PROTESTERS TO STOP AS SOON AS HE
LEARNED ABOUT IT? WHY DID
PRESIDENT TRUMP DO NOTHING TO
STOP THE ATTACK FOR TWO HOURS
AFTER THE ATTACK BEGAN? WHY DID
PRESIDENT TRUMP DO NOTHING TO
HELP PROTECT THE CAPITOL? AND
WORKFORCE MEANT BATTLING THE
INSURGENTS? YOU SAW THE BODY CAM
OF A CAPITOL POLICE OFFICER AT 4
RECORDED IN 4:29 STILL FIGHTING.
4:49
PERCENT WHAT TIME? 1:00, 2:00 IN
THE AFTERNOON. WHY DID HE NOT
CONDEMN THE VIOLENT INSURRECTION
ON JANUARY 6th? THOSE ARE THE
QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE AS WELL.
THE REASON THIS QUESTION KEEPS
COMING UP IS BECAUSE THE ANSWER
IS NOTHING.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM UTAH.
&gt;&gt; I SEND A QUESTION TO THE
DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM UTAH, MR.
ROMNEY ON BEHALF
SENATOR COLLINS
SUBMITS A QUESTION
AND THE CLERK WILL READ IT.
AND I APOLOGIZE. THE QUESTION IS
FOR BOTH SIDES THE TIME WILL BE
EVENLY DIVIDED.
&gt;&gt; WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP'S AND
THE DISPIRITING
TWEET AT 2:24 P.M. REGARDING
VICE PRESIDENT PENCE, WAS HE
AWARE THAT VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
HAD BEEN REMOVED FROM THE SENATE
BY THE SECRET SERVICE FOR HIS
SAFETY?
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGER.
TIME WILL BE EVENLY DIVIDED
BETWEEN.
&gt;&gt;
CAN THE QUESTION. AGAIN?
&gt;&gt; OF COURSE, WHAT THE CLERK
READ THE QUESTION AGAIN?
&gt;&gt; WHEN PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S AND THE DISPIRITING
TWEET AT 2:24 P.M. REGARDING
VICE PRESIDENT PENS, WAS HE
AWARE THAT THE VICE PRESIDENT
HAD BEEN REMOVED FROM THE SENATE
BY THE SECRET SERVICE FOR HIS
SAFETY?
&gt;&gt;
THE HOUSE MANAGERS ARE
RECOGNIZED FOR 2 1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU. LET ME TELL YOU
WHAT HE SAID AT 2:24 P.M. HE
SAID MIKE PENCE DIDN'T HAVE THE
COURAGE TO DO WHAT IT SHOULD
HAVE BEEN DONE TO PROTECT OUR
COUNTRY AND OUR CONSTITUTION.
THE USA DEMAND THE TRUTH. YOU
KNOW BY NOW WHAT WAS ALL OVER
THE MEDIA, YOU CAN'T TURN ON THE
TELEVISION, COULDN'T TURN ON THE
RADIO, COULDN'T CONSUME ANY
MEDIUM OR PROBABLY TAKE ANY
PHONE CALLS OR ANYTHING ELSE
WITHOUT HEARING ABOUT THIS AND
ALSO HEARING ABOUT THE VICE
PRESIDENT. HERE IS WHAT DONALD
TRUMP HAD TO KNOW AT THAT TIME
BECAUSE THE WHOLE WORLD KNEW IT.
ALL OF US KNEW IT.
LIVE TELEVISION HAD, BY THIS
POINT, SHOWING THAT THE
INSURGENTS WERE ALREADY INSIDE
THE BUILDING AND THAT THEY HAD
WEAPONS AND THAT THE POLICE WERE
OUTNUMBERED. HERE ARE THE FACTS
THAT ARE NOT IN DISPUTE. DONALD
TRUMP HAD NOT TAKEN ANY MEASURES
TO SEND HELP TO THE OVERWHELMED
CAPITOL POLICE.
AS PRESIDENT, AT THAT POINT,
WHEN YOU SEE ALL THIS GOING ON
AND THE PEOPLE AROUND YOU ARE
IMPLORING YOU TO DO SOMETHING
AND WERE VICE PRESIDENT IS
THERE, WHY WOULDN'T YOU DO IT?
DONALD TRUMP HAD NOT PUBLICLY
CONDEMNED THE ATTACK. THE
ATTACKERS ARE TOLD TO STAND DOWN
, DESPITE THE POLICE TO DO SO,
AND DONALD TRUMP HADN'T EVEN
ACKNOWLEDGED THE ATTACK. AFTER
WEDNESDAY'S TRIAL PORTION
CONCLUDED, SENATOR TURBERVILLE
SPOKE TO REPORTERS AND CONFIRMED
THE CALL THAT HE HAD WITH THE
PRESIDENT AND DID NOT DISPUTE
MANAGER CICILLINE'S DESCRIPTION
IN ANY WAY THAT THERE WAS A CALL
BETWEEN HE AND THE PRESIDENT
AROUND THE TIME THAT MIKE PENCE
WAS BEING USHERED OUT OF THE
CHAMBER. THAT WAS SHORTLY AFTER
2:00 P.M.. SENATOR TURBERVILLE
SPECIFICALLY SAID THAT HE TOLD
THE PRESIDENT
, "MR. PRESIDENT, THEY JUST TOOK
THE VICE PRESIDENT OUT. I'VE GOT
TO GO." THAT WAS SHORTLY AFTER
2:00 P.M. THERE WERE STILL HOURS
OF CHAOS AND CARNAGE AND MAYHEM.
VICE PRESIDENT AND HIS FAMILY
WERE STILL IN DANGER AT THAT
POINT. OUR COMMANDER IN CHIEF
DID NOTHING.
&gt;&gt; COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE ANSWER IS NO. AT NO POINT
WAS THE PRESIDENT INFORMED THE
VICE PRESIDENT WAS IN ANY DANGER
BECAUSE THE HOUSE ARREST THROUGH
THIS IMPEACHMENT IN SEVEN DAYS
WITH NO EVIDENCE, THERE IS
NOTHING AT ALL
ON THE RECORD ON THIS POINT.
BECAUSE THE HOUSE FAILED TO DO
EVEN A MINIMUM AMOUNT OF DUE
DILIGENCE. WHAT THE PRESIDENT
DID KNOW IS THAT THERE WAS A
VIOLENT, THERE WAS A VIOLENT
PACKET HAPPENING AT THE CAPITOL.
THAT IS WHEN HE REPEATEDLY
CALLED YOU TWEET INTO YOUR VIDEO
OR THE RIGHTS TO STOP, TO BE
PEACEFUL, TO RESPECT CAPITOL
POLICE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT, AND
TO COMMIT NO VIOLENCE AND TO GO
HOME. TO BE CLEAR, THIS IS AN
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT FOR
INCITEMENT. THIS IS NOT AN
ANYTHING ELSE
. IT IS A ONE COUNT. THEY COULD
HAVE CHARGED ANYTHING THEY
WANTED. THEY CHOSE TO CHARGE
INCITEMENT.
SO THE QUESTION, ALTHOUGH
ENTERED DIRECTLY NO, IT IS NOT
REALLY RELEVANT TO THE CHARGES
FOR THE IMPEACHMENT IN THIS CASE
. I JUST WANTED TO CLEAR UP ONE
MORE THING. MR. CASTRO, IN HIS
FIRST ANSWER, MAY HAVE SPOKE BUT
WHAT HE SAID WAS
MR. TRUMP HEADSET FIGHT TO THE
DEATH. THAT IS FALSE. I AM
HOPING HE MISSPOKE. THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; MR.
&gt;&gt;
THE SENATOR FROM MINNESOTA.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, ON BEHALF OF
MYSELF AND SENATORS CASEY AND
BROWN, I SEND A QUESTION TO THE
DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE QUESTION FROM SENATOR
CLEVENGER, SENATOR CASEY,
SENATOR BROWN TO THE HOUSE
MANAGERS. THE CLERK WILL REPORT.
&gt;&gt; IN PRESENTING YOUR CASE, YOU
RELIED ON PAST PRESIDENTS FROM
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS SUCH AS
WILLIAM BELKNAP'S
IF WE DO NOT CONVICT FORMER
PRESIDENT TRUMP, WHAT MESSAGE
WILL BE PRESENTING TO FUTURE
PRESIDENTS AND CONGRESSES?
&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT TRUMP ENGAGED IN A
COURSE OF CONDUCT THAT INCITED
AN ARMED ATTACK ON THE CAPITOL.
HE DID SO WHILE SEEKING TO
OVERTURN THE RESULTS OF THE
ELECTION AND THWART THE TRANSFER
OF POWER. WHEN THE ATTACK BEGAN,
HE FURTHER INCITED VIOLENCE
AIMED TO HIS OWN VICE PRESIDENT,
EVEN AS
DEMONSTRATED HIS STATE OF MIND
BY FAILING TO DEFEND US AND THE
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS WHO
PROTECT US. THE CONSEQUENCES OF
HIS CONDUCT WERE DEVASTATING ON
EVERY LEVEL.
POLICE OFFICERS WERE LEFT
OVERWHELMED, UNPROTECTED,
CONGRESS HAD TO BE EVACUATED,
OUR STAFF BARRICADED IN THIS
BUILDING, CALLING THEIR FAMILIES
TO SAY GOODBYE. SOME OF US, LIKE
MR. RASKIN HAD CHILDREN HERE
AND THESE PEOPLE IN THIS
BUILDING, SOME OF THEM WERE ON
THE FBI WATCH LIST, TOOK PHOTOS,
STOLE LAPTOPS, DESTROYED
PRECIOUS STATUES INCLUDING ONE
OF JOHN LEWIS. DESECRATED THE
STATUE OF A RECENTLY DECEASED
MEMBER OF CONGRESS WHO STOOD FOR
NONVIOLENCE. THIS WAS
DEVASTATING AND THE WORLD
WATCHED US AND THE WORLD IS
STILL WATCHING US.
THEY ARE WATCHING TO SEE WHAT WE
WILL DO THIS DAY AND WILL KNOW
WHAT WE DID THIS DAY 100 YEARS
FROM NOW. THOSE ARE THE
IMMEDIATE CONSEQUENCES AND OUR
ACTIONS WILL REVERBERATE
AS TO WHAT ARE THE FUTURE
CONSEQUENT US. THE EXTREMISTS
WHO ATTACKED THE CAPITOL AT THE
PRESIDENTS PROVOCATION WILL BE
EMBOLDENED. ALL OUR INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES HAVE CONFIRMED THIS. IT
IS NOT HOUSE MANAGERS SAYING
THAT. THERE ARE QUITE LITERALLY
STANDING BY AND STANDING READY.
DONALD TRUMP TOLD THEM
ONLY THE BEGINNING. THEY ARE
WAITING AND WATCHING TO SEE IF
DONALD TRUMP IS RIGHT THAT
EVERYONE SAID THIS WAS TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE. LET ME ALSO BRING
SOMETHING ELSE UP. I WILL
BRIEFLY SAY THAT THE DEFENSE
COUNSEL'S PUT A LOT OF VIDEOS
OUT IN THEIR DEFENSE, PLANE CLIP
AFTER CLIP OF BLACK WOMEN
TALKING ABOUT FIGHTING FOR A
CAUSE OR AN ISSUE OR A POLICY.
IT WAS NOT LOST ON ME THAT SO
MANY OF THEM WERE PEOPLE OF
COLOR AND WOMEN, BLACK WOMEN.
BLACK WOMEN LIKE MYSELF, WHO ARE
SICK AND TIRED OF BEING SICK AND
TIRED FOR OUR CHILDREN. YOUR
CHILDREN. OUR CHILDREN. THIS
SUMMER, THINGS HAPPENED THAT
WERE VIOLENT BUT THEY WERE ALSO
THINGS THAT GAVE SOME OF US
BLACK WOMEN GREAT COMFORT,
SEEING AMISH PEOPLE FROM
PENNSYLVANIA STANDING UP WITH
US, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
SIGNING UP WITH US. I THOUGHT WE
WERE PAST THAT. I THINK MAYBE WE
ARE NOT. THERE ARE LONG-STANDING
CONSEQUENCES, DECISIONS LIKE
THIS THAT WILL BE FINE WHO WE
ARE AS PEOPLE, AMERICA IS. WE
HAVE
IN THIS ROOM MADE MONUMENT OF
THE SESSIONS. YOU ALL HAVE MADE
MONUMENTAL DECISIONS. WE HAVE
DECLARED WARS, PAST CIVIL RIGHTS
ACTS, IN SHORT THAT NO ONE IN
THIS COUNTRY IS A . EVERY
AMERICAN HAS THE RIGHT TO VOTE
, UNLESS YOU LIVE IN A
TERRITORY. AT THIS TIME, SOME OF
THESE DECISIONS ARE EVEN
CONTROVERSIAL.
HISTORY HAS SHOWN THAT THEY
DEFINE US AS A COUNTRY AND AS A
PEOPLE. TODAY IS ONE OF THOSE
MOMENTS AND HISTORY WILL WAIT
FOR OUR DECISION.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM UTAH.
&gt;&gt; I SEND A QUESTION TO THE
DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM UTAH, MR.
LEE IS A QUESTION ON BEHALF OF
HIMSELF, SENATOR HOLLY, SENATOR
BLACKBURN, SENATOR PORTMAN, AND
THE QUESTION IS FOR THE CONSUL
FOR THE FORMER PRESIDENT. THE
CLERK WILL LEAD.
&gt;&gt; MULTIPLE STATE CONSTITUTIONS
ENACTED PRIOR TO 1787, NAMELY
THE CONSTITUTIONS OF DELAWARE,
VIRGINIA, PENNSYLVANIA, AND
VERMONT SPECIFICALLY PROVIDED
FOR THE IMPEACHMENT OF A FORMER
OFFICER. GIVEN THAT THE FRAMERS
OF THE U.S. CONSTITUTION WOULD
HAVE BEEN AWARE OF THESE
PROVISIONS, THAT'S THEIR
DECISION TO OMIT LANGUAGE
SPECIFICALLY AUTHORIZING THE
IMPEACHMENT OF FORMER OFFICIALS
INDICATE
THAT THEY DID NOT INTEND FOR OUR
CONSTITUTION TO ALLOW FOR THE
IMPEACHMENT OF FORMER OFFICIALS?
&gt;&gt; GOOD QUESTION.
THE ANSWER IS YES. OF COURSE
THEY LEFT IT OUT. THE FRAMERS
WERE VERY SMART MEN AND THEY
WENT OVER DRAFT AFTER DRAFT
AFTER DRAFT ON THAT DOCUMENT.
THEY REVIEWED ALL THE OTHER
DRAFT OF ALL OF THE STATE
CONSTITUTIONS. ALL OF THEM. THEY
PICKED AND CHOSE WHAT THEY
WANTED AND THEY DISCARDED WHAT
THEY DID NOT. WHAT THEY
DISCARDED
OF YOU TO IMPEACH A FORMER
ELECTED OFFICIAL. I HOPE THAT IS
ANSWERING THE QUESTION. THANK
YOU.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM CALIFORNIA.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, I SEND A
QUESTION TO THE DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM CALIFORNIA
SUBMIT A QUESTION FOR THE HOUSE
MANAGERS THE CLERK WILL BE
POURED.
&gt;&gt; HAVING BEEN ON THE FRONT
LINES OF COMBATING THE BIG LIE
OVER THE PAST FOUR YEARS AS
CALIFORNIA'S
CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER, IT IS
CLEAR THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
PLOT TO UNDERMINE THE 2020
ELECTION WAS BUILT ON LIES AND
CONSPIRACY THEORIES. HOW DID
THIS PLOT TO UNCONSTITUTIONALLY
KEEP PRESIDENT TRUMP AND POWER
LEAD TO THE RADICALIZATION OF SO
MANY OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
FOLLOWERS AND THE RESULTING
ATTACK ON THE CAPITOL?
&gt;&gt; SENATORS, DONALD TRUMP SPENT
MONTHS INCITING HIS BASE TO
BELIEVE THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN.
THAT WAS THE POINT, THAT WAS THE
THING THAT WOULD GET PEOPLE SO
ANGRY. THINK ABOUT THAT.
WOULD TAKE TO GET A LARGE GROUP
OF THOUSANDS OF AMERICANS SO
ANGRY TO STORM THE CAPITOL.
THAT WAS THE PURPOSE BEHIND
DONALD TRUMP SAYING THAT THE
ELECTION HAD BEEN RIGGED
AND THAT THE ELECTION HAD BEEN
STOLEN. TO BE CLEAR, WHEN HE
SAYS THE ELECTION IS STOLEN,
WHAT HE IS SAYING IS THAT THE
VICTORY, AND HE EVEN SAYS ONE
TIME THE ELECTION VICTORY IS
BEING STOLEN FROM THEM. THINK
ABOUT HOW SIGNIFICANT THAT IS TO
AMERICANS. AGAIN, YOU ARE RIGHT.
OVER 70 MILLION, I THINK 74
MILLION PEOPLE VOTED FOR DONALD
TRUMP. THIS WASN'T A ONE OFF
COMMENT
. IT WASN'T ONE TIME. IT WAS
OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER
AGAIN. WITH A PURPOSE.
WE ARE NOT HAVING THIS
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL HERE BECAUSE
DONALD TRUMP CONTESTED THE
ELECTION. AS I SAID DURING THE
PRESENTATION, NOBODY HERE WANTS
TO LOSE AN ELECTION. WE ARE ONE,
WE ALL WANT TO
WIN ELECTIONS. PRESIDENT TRUMP
WAS DIFFERENT. WHAT OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF DID WAS THE
POLAR OPPOSITE OF WHAT WE ARE
SUPPOSED TO DO, WE LET THE
PEOPLE DECIDE THE ELECTIONS,
EXCEPT PRESIDENT TRUMP. HE
DIRECTED ALL OF THAT RATE HE HAD
INCITED TO JANUARY 6th, THE LAST
CHANCE
. AGAIN, TO HIM, THIS WAS HIS
LAST CHANCE, THIS WAS CERTIFYING
THE ELECTION RESULTS. HE NEEDED
TO WHIP UP THAT MOB, AND THEN UP
ENOUGH TO GET OUT THERE AND TRY
TO STOP THE ELECTION RESULTS.
THE CERTIFICATION OF THE
ELECTION. AND THEY TOOK OVER THE
SENATE CHAMBER TO DO THAT. THEY
ALMOST TOOK OVER THE HOUSE
CHAMBER. THERE WERE 50
OR SO OR MORE HOUSE MEMBERS THAT
REALLY SCARED FOR THEIR LIVES UP
IN THE GALLERY. A WOMAN WHO
BOUGHT INTO THAT BIG LIE DIED
BECAUSE SHE BELIEVED THE
PRESIDENTS BIG LIE. THIS
RESULTED IN A LOSS OF ONE OF HIS
SUPPORTERS LIVES.
POLICE OFFICER DIED THAT DAY.
OTHER OF PRESIDENT'S SUPPORTERS
. TWO CAPITOL POLICE OFFICERS
ENDED UP TAKING THEIR OWN LIVES.
DEFENSE COUNSEL, THEIR DEFENSE
IS BASICALLY EVERYTHING
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID IS OKAY AND
HE CAN DO IT AGAIN. ISN'T THAT
WHAT WE BELIEVE? THAT THERE IS
NO PROBLEM WITH THAT? THAT IT IS
PERFECTLY FINE IF HE DOES THE
SAME THING ALL OVER AGAIN? THIS
IS A DANGEROUS. HE IS INCITING
HIS BASE. HE WAS USING
THE CLAIM OF A RIGGED ELECTION.
WE HAVE NEVER SEEN SOMEBODY DO
THAT OVER AND OVER AND OVER
AGAIN, TELL A LIE, SAY SIX
MONTHS AHEAD OF TIME THAT IT IS
A RIGGED ELECTION.
THERE IS A DANGEROUS
CONSEQUENCES TO THAT. WE'VE GOT
PLANS OF FOLLOWERS ON TWITTER
AND MILLIONS OF FOLLOWERS ON
FACEBOOK AND YOU HAVE THAT HUGE
BULLY PULPIT FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE AND YOU ARE THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES. THERE IS A
COST TO DOING THAT. PEOPLE ARE
LISTENING TO YOU IN A WAY THAT
QUITE HONESTLY THEY ARE NOT
LISTENING TO ME AND THEY ARE NOT
LISTENING TO ALL OF US IN THIS
ROOM. I JUST WANT TO CLEAR UP
THE DEFENSE COUNSEL MADE A POINT
ABOUT SOMETHING THAT I READ
EARLIER. DEFENSE COUNSEL
SUGGESTED I MISS SPOKE. I JUST
WANTED TO CLARIFY FOR THE RECORD
THAT THE TWEET I REFERENCED, LET
ME REDO THE TWEET DIRECTLY. "IF
A DEMOCRAT PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
WAS RIGGED AND STOLEN WITH PROOF
OF SUCH ACTS AT A LEVEL NEVER
SEEN BEFORE, THE DEMOCRAT
SENATORS WOULD CONSIDER IT AN
ACT OF WAR AND FIGHT TO THE
DEATH. MITCH AND THE REPUBLICANS
DO NOTHING, JUST WANT TO LET IT
PASS. NO FIGHT." DONALD TRUMP
WAS EQUATING WHAT DEMOCRATS
WOULD DO IF THERE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN, HE SAID THEY WOULD FIGHT
TO THE DEATH. WHY DO YOU THINK
HE SENDS THAT TWEET? BECAUSE HE
IS TRYING TO SAY, THE OTHER SIDE
WOULD FIGHT TO THE DEATH. SO YOU
SHOULD FIGHT TO THE DEATH. DO WE
READ THAT ANY OTHER WAY?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM MISSOURI.
&gt;&gt; ON MY BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF
SENATOR KRAMER, I SEND A
QUESTION TO THE DESK.
&gt;&gt; CENTRE
HAWLEY, ON BEHALF OF HIMSELF AND
SENATOR KRAMER SEND A QUESTION
FOR THE COUNSEL AND HOUSE
MANAGERS . FOLLOWING OUR
PROCEDURE, THE FIRST ONE TO
RESPOND AFTER IT IS MADE WILL BE
THE COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; IF THE SENATE'S POWER TO
DISQUALIFY IS NOT DERIVATIVE OF
THE POWER TO REMOVE A CONVICTED
PRESIDENT FROM OFFICE, COULD THE
SENATE DISQUALIFY A SITTING
PRESIDENT BUT NOT REMOVE HIM OR
HER?
THE SENATE'S POWER TO DISQUALIFY
IS NOT DERIVATIVE OF THE POWER
TO REMOVE A CONVICTED PRESIDENT
FROM OFFICE, COULD THE SENATE
DISQUALIFY A SITTING PRESIDENT
BUT NOT REMOVE HIM OR HER?
&gt;&gt;
THE COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT HAS 2 1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; NO.
I CAN'T LET THIS REST. MR.
CASTRO ATTRIBUTED A STATEMENT
THE DAY BEFORE LAST THAT HE WAS
A PEER THAT DONALD TRUMP HAD
TOLD HIS PEOPLE TO FIGHT TO THE
DEATH. I AM NOT FROM HERE. I AM
NOT LIKE YOU GUYS.
I WAS BEING VERY POLITE AND
GIVEN AN OPPORTUNITY TO CORRECT
THE RECORD. I THOUGHT THAT IS
EXACTLY WHAT HE WOULD DO.
INSTEAD, WHAT HE DID IS HE CAME
UP AND ILLUSTRATED THE PROBLEM
WITH THE PRESENTATION OF THE
HOUSE CASE.
IT HAS BEEN SMOKE AND MIRRORS
AND WORSE, IT HAS BEEN
DISHONEST. HE CAME UP AND TRIED
TO COVER WHEN HE GOT CAUGHT
THEY WERE CUT EARLIER TODAY WITH
ALL OF THE EVIDENCE
, CHECKING TWEETS, SWITCHING
DATES, EVERYTHING THEY DID, BEAR
IN MIND, I HAD TWO DAYS
TO LOOK AT THEIR EVIDENCE. WHEN
I SAY TWO DAYS, I REALLY STARTED
PUTTING IN THEIR EVIDENCE SO I
STARTED BEING ABLE TO GET
LOOKING AT IT. THAT IS NOT THE
WAY THIS SHOULD BE DONE. WHAT WE
DISCOVERED WAS HE KNEW WHAT HE
WAS DOING. HE KNEW THAT THE
PRESIDENT DIDN'T SAY THAT TO HIS
PEOPLE. WHAT HE SAID WAS
, IF IT HAPPENED TO THE
DEMOCRATS, THIS IS WHAT THEY
WOULD DO. IN HIS SPEECH THAT
DAY, YOU KNOW WHAT HE SAID? HE
SAID IF THIS HAPPENED TO THE
DEMOCRATS, IF THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN FROM THE DEMOCRATS, ALL
WOULD BREAK LOOSE. BUT, HE SAID
TO HIS SUPPORTERS, WE ARE
SMARTER. WE ARE STRONGER AND WE
ARE NOT GOING TO DO WHAT THEY
DID ALL SUMMER LONG.
SO WHAT HE DID WAS, HE
MISREPRESENTED A TWEET TO YOU TO
PUT FORTH THE NARRATIVE THAT IS
WRONG. IT IS WRONG, IT IS
DISHONEST, AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE DON'T DESERVE THIS ANY
LONGER. YOU MUST ACQUIT.
&gt;&gt; MANAGERS ON THE PART OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES HAVE 2
1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt;
THAT WAS PROFOUNDLY INACCURATE
AND IRRELEVANT TO WHAT THE
QUESTION IS SO THAT WE GET BACK
TO THE QUESTION IS. UNDER
ARTICLE 2 SECTION 4, A PRESIDENT
WHO IS IN OFFICE MUST BE
CONVICTED BEFORE REMOVAL. THEN
MUST BE REMOVED BEFORE
DISQUALIFICATION. OKAY.
IF THE PRESIDENT IS ALREADY OUT
OF OFFICE, THEN HE CAN BE
SEPARATELY DISQUALIFIED, AS THIS
PRESIDENT IS. THESE POWERS HAVE
ALWAYS BEEN TREATED AS SEPARATE,
WHICH IS WHY I THINK THERE HAVE
BEEN EIGHT PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
CONVICTED AND REMOVED IT JUST
THREE OF THEM DISQUALIFIED.
AS YOU KNOW, THERE IS A TOTALLY
SEPARATE PROCESS WITHIN THE
SENATE FOR DOING THIS. THE
CONSTITUTION REQUIRES A TWO
THIRDS VOTE FOR CONVICTION BUT
FOR DISQUALIFICATION, IT IS A
MAJORITY VOTE. IT IS A SEPARATE
THING. PEOPLE COULD VOTE TO
CONVICT AND VOTE NOT TO
DISQUALIFY IF THEY FELT THAT
THE EVIDENCE DEMONSTRATED THAT
THE PRESIDENT WAS GUILTY OF
INCITEMENT TO INSURRECTION, THEY
COULD VOTE TO CONVICT BUT IF
THEY FELT THAT THEY DIDN'T WANT
TO EXERCISE THE FURTHER POWER
ESTABLISHED BY THE CONSTITUTION
TO DISQUALIFY, THEY WOULDN'T
HAVE TO DO THAT AND THAT COULD
BE SOMETHING THAT IS TAKEN
SEPARATELY BY THE SENATE BY
MAJORITY VOTE.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM
MASSACHUSETTS.
&gt;&gt; I SEND A QUESTION TO THE
DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM
MASSACHUSETTS HAS A QUESTION FOR
THE HOUSE MANAGERS. THE CLERK
WILL READ THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; THE DIFFERENCES PRESENTATION
HIGHLIGHTED THE FACT THAT
DEMOCRATIC MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
RAISED OBJECTIONS TO COUNTING OF
ELECTORAL VOTES IN PAST SESSIONS
OF CONGRESS. TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE,
WERE ANY OF THOSE ACRYLIC
OBJECTIONS RAISED AFTER
INTERVENTIONISTS
STORMED THE CAPITOL IN ORDER TO
PREVENT THE CODING OF ELECTORAL
VOTES AND AFTER THE PRESIDENT'S
PERSONAL LAWYER ASKED SENATORS
TO MAKE THESE OBJECTIONS
SPECIFICALLY TO DELAY THE
CERTIFICATION?
&gt;&gt;
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR.
PRESIDENT, FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO RESPOND TO THAT. THE ANSWER
IS NO, WE ARE NOT AWARE THAT ANY
OTHER OBJECTIONS RAISED IN THE
CODING OF ELECTORAL COLLEGE
VOTES EITHER BY DEMOCRATS OR
REPUBLICANS, AND THIS HAS BEEN A
PROUD PERSON
TRADITION AND THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE JUST BECAUSE THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE IS SO ARCANE
AND HAS SO MANY RULES TO IT. I
THINK MY COCOUNSEL ON THE OTHER
SIDE HAD SOME FUN BECAUSE I WAS
ONE OF THE PEOPLE WHO TOOK I
THINK ABOUT 30 SECONDS IN 2016
TO POINT OUT THAT THE ELECTORS
FROM FLORIDA WERE NOT ACTUALLY
CONFORMING TO THE LETTER OF THE
LAW BECAUSE THEY HAVE A WILL IN
FLORIDA YOU CAN'T BE A DUAL
OFFICEHOLDER. YOU CAN'T BE A
STATE LEGISLATOR AND ALSO BE AN
ELECTRODE. SO THAT WAS IN PROPER
FORM BUT I THINK THE VICE
PRESIDENT, THEN VICE PRESIDENT
BIDEN PROPERLY BAFFLED ME DOWN
AND SAID WE ARE GOING TO TRY TO
MAKE THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE WORK
AND WE ARE GOING TO VINDICATE
THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE. THAT IS
PRETTY MUCH WHAT HAS HAPPENED.
NOBODY HAS STORMED THE CAPITOL
BEFORE, OR AS A PERCENTAGE OF
CHENEY, THE SECRETARY OF THE
REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE SAID, GONE
OUT AND SUMMONED A MOB, A SYMBOL
AMOUNT, INCITED A MOB, AND LIT A
MATCH. AS REPRESENTATIVE CHENEY
SAID, THIS WOULD, THAT ALL OF
THIS GOES TO THE DOORSTEP OF THE
PRESIDENT. NONE OF IT WOULD
HAPPEN WITHOUT HIM AND ALL OF IT
IS DUE TO HIS ACTIONS. THAT IS
THE CHAIR OF THE HOUSE
REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE, WHO WAS
THE TARGET OF AN EFFORT TO
REMOVE HER, WHICH WAS REJECTED
ON THE FOOT OF BY MORE THAN 2 TO
1 AND THE HOUSE REPUBLICAN
CONFERENCE WHEN THERE WAS AN
ATTEMPT TO REMOVE HER FOR
PUTTING FOR IMPEACHMENT AND
BECOMING A LEADER FOR
VINDICATING OUR CONSTITUTIONAL
VALUES. SO PLEASE DON'T MIX UP
WITH REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS
HAVE DONE. IN EVERY ELECTION FOR
THE LONG TIME TO SAY THERE ARE
PARTIES GOING ON IN TERMS OF
CONFORMING WITH STATE ELECTION
LAWS WITH THE IDEA OF MOBILIZING
A MOB INSURRECTION AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT THAT GOT FIVE PEOPLE
KILLED. 140 CAPITOL OFFICERS
WANTED, AND THREATENED THE
ACTUAL PEACEFUL SUCCESSION OF
POWER AND TRANSFER OF POWER IN
AMERICA. IF YOU WANT TO TALK
ABOUT REFORMING THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE, WE CAN ABOUT REFORMING
THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE. DON'T DO
IT WITH VIOLENCE.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FOR NORTH DAKOTA.
&gt;&gt; FIGURE, I SENT A QUESTION TO
THE DESK FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENTS ATTORNEYS.
&gt;&gt; THE CLERK WILL READ
THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; GIVEN THE ALLEGATIONS OF THE
HOUSE MANAGER THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAS TOLERATED
ANTI-SEMITIC RHETORIC, HAS THERE
BEEN A MORE PRO-ISRAEL PRESIDENT
THAN
PRESIDENT TRUMP?
&gt;&gt; NO, BUT IT IS APPARENT THAT
NOBODY LISTENED TO WHAT I SAID
EARLIER TODAY BECAUSE THE
PICTORIAL SPEECH NEEDS
TO STOP. YOU NEED TO STOP. THERE
WAS NOTHING FUN HERE
MR. RASKIN. WE AREN'T HAVING
FUN. THIS IS ABOUT THE MOST
EXPERIENCE I'VE HAD DOWN HERE IN
WASHINGTON DEEP DC. AND IN
PHILADELPHIA, WHERE I COME FROM,
WHEN YOU GET CAUGHT DOCTORING
THE EVIDENCE, YOUR CASE IS OVER.
AND THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED. THEY
GOT CAUGHT DOCTORING THE
EVIDENCE IN THIS CASE SHOULD
BE OVER.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR FROM BUT
NOT VERMONT?
&gt;&gt; SENATOR FROM VERMONT, SENATOR
SANDERS HAS A QUESTION FOR BOTH
THE COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT AND
HOUSE MANAGER. THE CLERK WILL
READ IT AND FOLLOWING OUR
PROCEDURE, THE HOUSE MANAGERS
WILL
GO FIRST.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE PROSECUTORS HAS
STATED OVER AND OVER AGAIN THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS PURCHASED
PERPETRATING A BIG LIE WHEN HE
REPEATEDLY CLAIMED THAT THE
ELECTION WAS STOLEN FROM HIM AND
THAT HE ACTUALLY WON THE
ELECTION BY A LANDSLIDE. ARE THE
PROSECUTORS RIGHT WHEN THEY
CLAIM THAT TRUMP WAS TELLING A
BIG LIE OR IN YOUR JUDGMENT, DID
TRUMP ACTUALLY WIN
THE ELECTION?
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE UP TO
1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; AS WE ALL KNOW, PRESIDENT
TRUMP DID LOSE THE ELECTION BY 7
MILLION VOTES
, 306 ELECTORAL VOTES. BY THE
TIME OF THE JANUARY 6th ATTACK,
THE COURTS, THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT, ALL 50 STATES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY DUNN AGREED THAT
THE CODE VOTES WERE COUNTED, THE
PEOPLE HAVE SPOKEN AND IT WAS
TIME FOR THE PEACEFUL TRANSFER
OF POWER. AS OUR CONSTITUTION
AND THE RULE OF LAW DEMANDS, 61
COURTS, 61 COURTS THE PRESIDENT
WENT TO. THAT'S FINE.
APPROPRIATE.
HE LOST. HE LOST! HE LOST
THE ELECTION. HE LOST THE COURT
CASE. AS LEADER
McCONNELL RECOGNIZED THE DAY
AFTER THE ELECTORS CERTIFIED THE
VOTES ON DECEMBER 14th, HE SAID,
QUOTE, MANY MILLIONS OF US HAD
HOPED THAT THE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION WOULD YIELD A DIFFERENT
RESULT. BUT OUR SYSTEM OF
GOVERNMENT HAS PROCESSES TO
DETERMINE WHO WILL BE SWORN IN
ON JANUARY 20th. THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE
HAS SPOKEN.
PATRIOTISM. SOMETIMES THERE IS A
REASON TO DISPUTE AN ELECTION.
SOMETIMES THE COUNT IS CLOSE,
SOMETIMES WE ASK FOR A RECOUNT,
GO
TO COURTS, ALL OF THAT IS
APPROPRIATE. I LOST MY FIRST
ELECTION, I STAYED IN BED FOR
THREE DAYS. WE DO WHAT WE NEED
TO DO AND WE MOVE ON. THIS WAS
NOT THAT. BECAUSE WHEN ALL OF
THESE PEOPLE CONFIRMED THAT
DONALD TRUMP HAD LOST COME AWAY
WHEN
THE COURTS, HIS, HIS DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE, STATE OFFICIALS,
CONGRESS, HIS
VICE PRESIDENT WERE READY TO
COMMIT TO THE PEACEFUL TRANSFER
OF POWER, THE PEACEFUL TRANSFER
OF POWER, DONALD TRUMP WAS NOT
READY. AND SO WE ARE ALL HERE
BECAUSE HE WAS
NOT READY. DAY AFTER DAY HE TOLD
HIS SUPPORTERS FALSE, OUTLANDISH
CLAIMS OF WHY THIS ELECTION WAS
RIGGED. NOW, LET'S BE CLEAR.
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD ABSOLUTELY
NO SUPPORT OF THESE CLAIMS. THAT
WASN'T THE POINT OF WHAT HE WAS
DOING. HE DID IT TO MAKE HIS
SUPPORTERS FRUSTRATED, TO MAKE
THEM ANGRY.
&gt;&gt; TIME
HAS EXPIRED. AND COUNSEL, FOR
THE FORMER PRESIDENT, RECOGNIZE
FOR 2
1/2 MINUTES. THE CLERK WILL READ
THE
QUESTION AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE PROSECUTORS HAVE
STATED OVER AND OVER AGAIN THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS PERPETRATING
A BIG LIE WHEN HE REPEATEDLY
CLAIMED THAT THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN FROM HIM AND THAT HE
ACTUALLY WON THE ELECTION BY
A LANDSLIDE. ARE THE PROSECUTORS
RIGHT WHEN THEY CLAIM THAT TRUMP
WAS TELLING A BIG LIE? OR IN
YOUR JUDGMENT, DID TRUMP
ACTUALLY WIN
THE ELECTION?
&gt;&gt; THE COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT HAVE 2
1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; MY JUDGMENT? WHO ASKED THAT?
MY JUDGMENT HERE IS RELEVANT IN
THIS PROCEEDING. IT ABSOLUTELY
AIRS. WHAT IS SUPPOSED TO HAPPEN
HERE IS THE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT IS --
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE WILL BE
IN ORDER. THE SENATORS UNDER THE
RULES CANNOT CHALLENGE THE
CONTENT OF THE RESPONSE. THE
COUNCIL WILL CONTINUE.
&gt;&gt; MY MAY I HAVE THE QUESTION
READ
AGAIN PLEASE?
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE PROSECUTORS HAVE
STATED OVER AND
OVER AGAIN THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WAS PERPETRATING A BIG LIE WHEN
HE REPEATEDLY CLAIMED THAT THE
ELECTION WAS STOLEN FROM HIM AND
THAT HE ACTUALLY WON THE
ELECTION BY
A LANDSLIDE. ARE THE PROSECUTORS
RIGHT WHEN THEY CLAIM THAT TRUMP
WAS TELLING A BIG LIE? OR IN
YOUR JUDGMENT, DID TRUMP
ACTUALLY WIN
THE ELECTION?
&gt;&gt; IN MY JUDGMENT, IT IS
IRRELEVANT TO THE QUESTION
BEFORE THIS BODY. WHAT IS
RELEVANT IN THIS
IMPEACHMENT ARTICLE IS, WERE MR.
TRUMP'S WORDS INSIGHTFUL TO THE
POINT OF VIOLENCE AND RIOT? THAT
IS THE CHARGE, THAT IS THE
QUESTION. AND THE ANSWER IS NO.
HE DID NOT HAVE SPEECH THAT WAS
INSIGHTFUL TO VIOLENCE OR RIOT.
NOW, WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND HERE IS THE HOUSE
MANAGERS HAVE COMPLETELY, FROM
THE BEGINNING OF THIS CASE, TO
RIGHT NOW, DONE EVERYTHING
EXCEPT ANSWER
THAT QUESTION! THE QUESTION THEY
BROUGHT BEFORE YOU. THE QUESTION
THEY WANT MY CLIENT TO BE
PUNISHED BY. THAT IS THE
QUESTIONS THAT SHOULD BE GETTING
ASKED. AND THE ANSWER IS HE
ADVOCATED FOR
PATRIOTIC PROTEST. THE HOUSE
MANAGERS HAVE SHOWED ZERO,
ZERO EVIDENCE THAT HIS WORDS DID
ANYTHING ELSE. REMEMBER, ALL OF
THE EVIDENCE SAYS THIS WAS
PREMEDITATED. THE ATTACK ON THE
CAPITAL WAS PREPLANNED. IT
DIDN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH
MR. TRUMP IN
ANY WAY WHAT HE SAID ON THAT DAY
ON JANUARY SIXTH AT THAT
ELLIPSE. AND THAT IS THE ISSUE
BEFORE
THIS SENATE. NOW, ON THE ISSUE
OF CONTESTING ELECTIONS AND THE
RESULTS, THE DEMOCRATS HAVE
A LONG COME A LONG HISTORY OF
JUST DOING THAT. I HOPE
EVERYBODY WAS ABLE TO SEE THE
VIDEO EARLIER TODAY OVER AND
OVER AGAIN IT HAS
BEEN CONTESTED. WHEN MR. TRUMP
WAS ELECTED PRESIDENT, WE WERE
TOLD --
&gt;&gt; COUNSEL, THE 2 1/2 MINUTES
HAD EXPIRED.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR FROM
WISCONSIN.
&gt;&gt; I SENT A QUESTION TO THE DESK
FOR
BOTH PARTIES.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR FROM WISCONSIN SENDS
A QUESTION FOR BOTH COUNSEL FOR
THE FORMER PRESIDENT AND THE
HOUSE MANAGERS. CLERK WILL READ
IT AND
THE COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT WILL HAVE THE FIRST 2
1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; THE
HOUSE MANAGERS ASSERT THAT THE
JANUARY SIXTH ATTACK WAS
PREDICTABLE AND IT
WAS FORESEEABLE. IF SO, WHY DID
IT APPEAR THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT
AT THE CAPITAL WERE CAUGHT OFF
GUARD AND UNABLE TO PREVENT THE
BREACH? WHY DID THE HOUSE
SERGEANT AT ARMS REPORTEDLY
TURNED DOWN A REQUEST TO
ACTIVATE THE NATIONAL GUARD
STATING THAT HE WAS NOT
COMFORTABLE WITH
THE OPTICS?
&gt;&gt;
COUNSEL FORMER PRESIDENT
IS RECOGNIZED.
&gt;&gt; COULD YOU READ THE QUESTION
AGAIN PLEASE?
&gt;&gt; READ THE QUESTION AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS ASSERT
THAT THE JANUARY SIXTH ATTACK
WAS PREDICTABLE AND IT
WAS FORESEEABLE. IF SO, WHY DID
IT APPEAR THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT
AT THE CAPITAL WERE CAUGHT OFF
GUARD AND UNABLE TO PREVENT THE
BREACH? WHY DID THE HOUSE
SERGEANT AT ARMS REPORTEDLY
TURNED DOWN A REQUEST TO
ACTIVATE THE
NATIONAL GUARD, STATING THAT HE
WAS NOT COMFORTABLE WITH THE
OPTICS PREXY
&gt;&gt; HOLY COW. THAT IS A REALLY
GOOD QUESTION. AND HAD THE HOUSE
MANAGERS DONE THEIR
INVESTIGATION, MAYBE SOMEBODY
WOULD HAVE AN ANSWER TO THAT.
BUT THEY DIDN'T.
THEY DID ZERO INVESTIGATION.
THEY DID NOTHING. THEY LOOKED
INTO NOTHING. THEY READ
NEWSPAPER ARTICLES, THEY TALKED
TO THEIR FRIENDS WHO KNOW A TV
REPORTER OR SOMETHING OR
SOMETHING OR ANOTHER. BUT JIMINY
CRICKET TICKETS, THERE IS NO DUE
PROCESS IN THIS PROCEEDING AT
ALL AND THAT QUESTION HIGHLIGHTS
THE PROBLEM WHEN YOU HAVE NO DUE
PROCESS, YOU HAVE NO CLEAR-CUT
ANSWERS. BUT WE
DO KNOW THAT THERE WAS, I THINK,
A CERTAIN LEVEL OF
FORESEEABILITY. IT LOOKS LIKE
FROM THE INFORMATION THEY
WERE PRESENTING, SOME LAW
ENFORCEMENT KNEW THAT SOMETHING
COULD HAPPEN. IN MY
PRESENTATION, WE KNEW THAT
THE MAYOR, TWO DAYS BEFORE,
BEFORE, HAD BEEN OFFERED TO HAVE
FEDERAL TROOPS OR NATIONAL
GUARD DEPLOYED BEEF UP SECURITY
HERE IN
CAPITOL POLICE. THAT WAS
OFFERED. SO, SOMEBODY HAD TO
HAVE AN INKLING INTO SOMETHING.
AND MY QUESTION IS WHO IGNORED
IT?
AND WHY?
IS AN INVESTIGATION WERE DONE,
WE WOULD KNOW THE ANSWER TO THAT
TOO. THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE TWO
AND A HOUSE -- 2
1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; FIRST, IT DEFENDS COUNSEL HAS
EXCULPATORY EVIDENCE YOU ARE
WELCOME TO GIVE IT TO US. WE
WOULD LOVE TO SEE IT. YOU'VE HAD
AN OPPORTUNITY TO GIVE US
EVIDENCE THAT WOULD A SCOPE WITH
TAPE THE PRESIDENT. HAVEN'T SEEN
IT YET. EVERYONE, THE DEFENSE
COUNSEL BALL WANTS TO BLAME
EVERYONE ELSE EXCEPT THE PERSON
WHO WAS MOST RESPONSIBLE FOR
WHAT HAPPENED ON JANUARY SIXTH.
AND THAT IS PRESIDENT TRUMP.
DONALD TRUMP. AND THAT IS A
PERSON WHO FORESEE THIS THE MOST
BECAUSE HE HAD THE REPORTS, HE
HAD ACCESS TO THE INFORMATION.
HE AS WELL HAD, WE ALL KNOW HOW
HE IS AN AVID CABLE NEWS
WATCHER. HE KNEW WHAT WAS GOING
TO HAPPEN. HE CULTIVATED THESE
INDIVIDUALS. THESE ARE THE
UNDISPUTED FACTS, THE NATIONAL
GUARD
WAS A NOT DEPLOYED AFTER THE
ATTACK. I HEARD REFERENCE TO
MAYOR BOWSER IN DEFENSES
PRESENTATION. MAYOR BOWSER DOES
NOT HAVE AUTHORITY OVER THE
CAPITAL OR FEDERAL BUILDINGS.
SHE COULD NOT DEPLOY NATIONAL
GUARDS TO
THE CAPITAL. THAT IS OUTSIDE OF
THE JURISDICTION OF THE MAYOR OF
THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA. AT NO POINT IN THAT
ENTIRE DAY TO THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES, OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF, TELL ANYONE,
LAW ENFORCEMENT STRUGGLING FOR
THEIR EYES, INSURGENTS WHO FELT
EMPOWERED BY THE SHEER QUANTITY
OF THEM, ANY OF US IN THIS
BUILDING OR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE,
THAT HE WAS SENDING HELP. HE DID
NOT DEFEND THE CAPITAL. THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
DID NOT DEFEND THE CAPITAL OF
THIS COUNTRY.
IT'S UN-INDEFENSIBLE.
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR MORAN.
&gt;&gt; I SENT A QUESTION TO THE
DESK.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR SUBMITS A QUESTION
FOR THE HOUSE MANAGERS. THE
CLERK WILL READ
THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; IF A PRESIDENT SPENDS A BIG
LIE TO ANGER AMERICANS AND
STOKES THE THEORY BY REPEATING
THE LIE AT EVENT AFTER EVENT AND
INVITES VIOLENT GROUPS TO DC ON
THE DAY AND OUR NECESSARY TO
INTERRUPT THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE COUNT AND DOES NOTHING
TO STOP THOSE GROUPS FROM
ADVANCING ON THE CAPITAL AND
FAILS TO SUMMON THE NATIONAL
GUARD TO PROTECT THE CAPITAL AND
THEN EXPRESSES PLEASURE AND
DELIGHT THAT THE CAPITAL WAS
UNDER ATTACK, IS THE PRESIDENT
INNOCENT OF INCITING AN
INSURRECTION? BECAUSE IN A
SPEECH HE SAYS
BE PEACEFUL?
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE
FIVE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; Y'ALL ASK A VERY IMPORTANT
QUESTION,
WHICH IS
GIVING EVERYTHING THAT THE
PRESIDENT DID LEADING UP TO THE
ELECTION, AFTER THE ELECTION AND
LEADING UP TO JANUARY SIXTH, ALL
OF THE INCITEMENT OF HIS
SUPPORTERS WHOM HE CONVINCED
WITH A BIG LIE OVER AND OVER,
THAT THE ELECTION HAD BEEN
STOLEN FROM THEM AND FROM HIM
AND THEN ONCE THE MOB
HAD STORMED THE CAPITAL, THE
VICE PRESIDENT WAS IN DANGER,
THE SPEAKER WAS IN DANGER AND
THE MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE AND THE
SENATE AND ALL THE STAFF HERE,
THE JANITORIAL STAFF, THE
CAFETERIA WORKERS, EVERYBODY,
AND ALL OF THE HOT RHETORIC THAT
HE SPOKE WITH AND THEN SIMPLY A
FEW TIMES SAID STAY PEACEFUL.
REMEMBER,
HE SAID STAY PEACEFUL WHEN THEY
HAD ALREADY GOTTEN VIOLENT. WHEN
THEY HAD ALREADY BROUGHT
WEAPONS. WHEN THEY HAD ALREADY
HURT PEOPLE. WHAT HE NEVER SAID
WAS STOP THE ATTACK, LEAVE THE
CAPITAL,
LEAVITT IMMEDIATELY.
AND LET ME BE CLEAR. THE
PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE IN THAT
JANUARY 6th SPEECH
WAS INCENDIARY. SO, IN THE
ENTIRE SPEECH WHICH WAS ROUGHLY
1100 WORDS, HE USED THE WORD
PEACEFUL ONCE. AND USING THE
WORD PEACEFUL WAS THE ONLY
SUGGESTION OF NONVIOLENCE. AND
PRESIDENT TRUMP USE THE WORD
FIGHT OR FIGHTING 20 TIMES. NOW
AGAIN, CONSIDER
THE CONTEXT
. HE HAD BEEN TELLING THEM A BIG
LIE OVER AND OVER, GETTING THEM
AMPED UP, GETTING THEM ANGRY
BECAUSE AN ELECTION HAD BEEN
STOLEN FROM THEM. THERE IS
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE IN FRONT OF
THEM, SOME OF THEM ARE CARRYING
WEAPONS AND ARMS. THEY ARE
ANGRY. HE'S TELLING THEM TO
FIGHT. IN PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
WORDS IN THAT SPEECH JUST LIKE
THE MOB'S ACTIONS WERE CAREFULLY
CHOSEN. HIS WORDS INCITED
THEIR ACTIONS. AND HOW DO WE
KNOW THIS? FOR MONTHS THE
PRESIDENT HAD TOLD HIS
SUPPORTERS HIS BIG LIE THAT THE
ELECTION WAS RIGGED AND HE USED
THE LIE TO URGE HIS SUPPORTERS
NOT TO CONCEDE AND TO STOP
THE STEEL.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU ROB A BANK ON THE WAY
OUT THE DOOR UVL RESPECT PRIVATE
PROPERTY, THAT IS NOT A DEFENSE
TO PRY ROBBING THE BANK.
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT?
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM TEXAS.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT I SEND A
QUESTION TO THE DESK DIRECTIVE
THAT
BOTH SIDES.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM TEXAS HAS A
QUESTION FOR
BOTH SIDES. THE CLERK WILL READ
IT AND THE HOUSE MANAGERS WILL
GO FIRST FOR 2
1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; OUT OF THERE 16 HOURS, THE
HOUSE
MANAGERS DEVOTED ALL OF 15
MINUTES TO ARTICULATING A NEWLY
CREATED LEGAL STANDARD FOR
INCITEMENT. ONE WAS
VIOLENCE FORESEEABLE? TWO, DID
HE ENCOURAGE VIOLENCE? THREE,
DID HE DO
SO WILLFULLY? IS THIS NEW
STANDARD DERIVED FROM THE
CRIMINAL CODE OR ANY SUPREME
COURT CASE? WHILE VIOLENT RIOTS
WERE RAGING, KAMALA HARRIS SAID
ON NATIONAL TV, THEY
GOING TO LET UP AND THEY SHOULD
NOT AND SHE ALSO RAISED MONEY TO
BAIL OUT
VIOLENT WRITERS. USING THE
MANAGER'S PROPOSED STANDARD, IS
THERE ANY
COHERENT WAY FOR DONALD TRUMP'S
WORDS TO BE INCITEMENT AND
KAMALA HARRIS'S WORDS NOT TO
BE INCITEMENT?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT.
SENATORS, I'M NOT FAMILIAR WITH
THIS STATEMENT THAT IS BEING
REFERRED TO BUT I FIND IT
ABSOLUTELY UNIMAGINABLE THAT
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS WOULD EVER
INSIGHT VIOLENCE OR ENCOURAGE OR
PROMOTE
VIOLENCE. OBVIOUSLY IT IS
COMPLETELY IRRELEVANT TO THE
PROCEEDING AT HAND AND I WILL
ALLOW HER TO
DEFEND HERSELF.
THE PRESIDENT'S LAWYERS ARE
POINTING OUT THAT WE HAVE NEVER
HAD ANY SITUATION LIKE THIS
BEFORE IN THE HISTORY OF THE
UNITED STATES AND ITS TRUE.
THERE IS NEVER BEEN A PRESIDENT
WHO HAS ENCOURAGED A VIOLENT
INSURRECTION AGAINST OUR OWN
GOVERNMENT SO WE REALLY HAVE
NOTHING TO COMPARE IT TO. SO,
WHAT WE DO IN THIS TRIAL WILL
ESTABLISH A STANDARD GOING
FORWARD FOR ALL TIME. THERE ARE
TWO THEORIES THAT HAVE BEEN PUT
BEFORE YOU AND I THINK WE'VE GOT
TO GET PAST ALL OF THE LITTLE
CRITIQUES THAT HAVE BEEN
OFFERED TODAY ABOUT THIS OR
THAT. LET'S FOCUS ON WHAT IS
REALLY AT STAKE HERE. THE
PRESIDENT'S LAWYERS SAY, ECHOING
THE PRESIDENT, HIS CONDUCT WAS
TOTALLY APPROPRIATE. IN OTHER
WORDS, HE WOULD DO IT AGAIN.
EXACTLY WHAT HE DID IS THE NEW
STANDARD FOR WHAT IS ALLOWABLE
FOR HIM OR ANY OTHER PRESIDENT
WHO GETS INTO OFFICE. OUR POINT
IS THAT HIS INCITEMENT SO
OVERWHELMS ANY POSSIBLE LEGAL
STANDARD WE HAVE THAT WE'VE GOT
THE OPPORTUNITY NOW TO DECLARE
THAT PRESIDENTIAL INCITEMENT TO
VIOLENT INSURRECTION AGAINST THE
CAPITAL AND THE CONGRESS IS
COMPLETELY FORBIDDEN TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
UNDER THE IMPEACHMENT CLAUSES.
SO WE STEP FORTH THE ELEMENT OF
ENCOURAGEMENT OF VIOLENCE AND WE
SAW IT OVERWHELMINGLY. WE
KNOW THAT HE PICKED THE DATE OF
THAT RALLY AND IN FACT THERE WAS
ANOTHER GROUP THAT WOULD HAVE A
RALLY ANOTHER DATE AND HE GOT IT
MOVED TO JANUARY FIRST HE
SYNCHRONIZED EXACTLY THE TIME
THAT WE WOULD BE ENJOYING
SESSION AND AS REPRESENTATIVE
CHENEY SAID HE SUMMONED THAT
MOB, HE ASSEMBLED THAT MOB. HE
INCITED THAT MOB. HE LIT THE
MATCH. COME ON, GET REAL. WE
KNOW THAT THIS IS WHAT HAPPENED.
AND THE SECOND THING IS THE FOR
SORRY FORESEEABILITY OF IT
REMEMBER LANSING, MICHIGAN AND
EVERYTHING WE SHOWED YOU? THEY
DIDN'T MANTRA MENTIONED THAT OF
COURSE. REMEMBER THE
MEGA RALLY? THEY DIDN'T MENTION
THAT. THE VIOLENCE ALL OVER THE
RALLIES. THE PRESIDENT CHEERING
IT ON, DELIGHTING IN IT,
EXULTING IN IT. COME ON, HOW
GULLIBLE DO YOU THINK WE ARE? WE
SAW THIS HAPPEN. WE JUST SPENT
--
&gt;&gt; TIME HAS EXPIRED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT HAS 2 1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR CRUZ, I BELIEVE THE
FIRST PART OF YOUR QUESTION
REFERS TO THE NEWLY CREATED
RASKIN DOCTRINE ON
FIRST AMENDMENT AND HE JUST, IN
HIS ANSWER, ACTUALLY GAVE YOU A
NEW ONE, APPROPRIATENESS. THE
STANDARD THAT THIS BODY NEEDS TO
FOLLOW FOR LAW IS BRANDENBURG
V OHIO AND THE THREE-PART TEST
REALLY COMES OUT OF BIBLE
BELIEVERS VERSUS WAYNE COUNTY TO
BE SPECIFIC. THE SPEECH HAS
TO BE EXPLICITLY OR IMPLICITLY
ENCOURAGED THE USE OF VIOLENCE
IN OTHER WORDS DOES IT HAVE TO
BE THE
WORDS ITSELF
IT IS LUDICROUS FOR THAT TO BE
TRUE. THIRD, THE EMINENT USE OF
VIOLENCE OR LAWLESS ACTION IS
LIKELY TO RESULT IN SPEECH.
ALSO, THEY
FELL ON ALL THREE POINTS OF THE
LAW AS WE KNOW IT AND NEEDS TO
BE APPLIED HERE. I DON'T KNOW
WHY HE SAID HE NEVER HEARD
KAMALA HARRIS SAY ABOUT THE
RIOTS AND THE PEOPLE WRITING
AND RUINING OUR BUSINESSES AND
OUR STREETS THAT THEY ARE NOT
GOING TO LET UP AND THEY SHOULD
NOT BECAUSE WE PLAYED IT THREE
TIMES TODAY. WE GAVE IT TO YOU
IN AUDIO. I READ IT TO YOU AND
YOU GOT IT IN VIDEO. THAT'S WHAT
SHE SAID. BUT IT IS
PROTECTED SPEECH. HER SPEECH IS
PROTECTED ALSO, SENATOR, THAT IS
THE POINT. YOU ALL HAVE
PRODUCTIONS AS
ELECTED OFFICIALS, THE HIGHEST
PROTECTIONS UNDER THE FIRST
AMENDMENT AND THAT FIRST
AMENDMENT APPLIES HERE IN THIS
CHAMBER TO THIS PROCEEDING AND
THAT IS WHAT YOU NEED TO KEEP
FOCUSED ON. NEED TO KEEP FOCUSED
ON WHAT IS THE LAW AND HOW DO WE
APPLY IT TO THIS SET OF FACTS?
IT IS YOUR DUTY. YOU CAN'T GET
CAUGHT UP IN ALL OF THE RHETORIC
AND FACTS THAT ARE IRRELEVANT.
YOU NEED TO KEEP FOCUSED ON WHAT
IS THE ISSUE BEFORE YOU DECIDED
BASED ON THE LAW, BRANDENBURG
AND BIBLE BELIEVERS AND APPLY IT
TO THE FACTS. AND THAT REQUIRES
YOU TO LOOK AT THE WORDS AND
THERE WERE NO WORDS OF
INCITEMENT OF ANY KIND.
&gt;&gt; TIME HAS EXPIRED.
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR FROM WASHINGTON.
&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT I SEND A QUESTION
TO THE DESK.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR MURRAY HAS A QUESTION
FOR THE HOUSE MANAGERS, THE
CLERK WILL READ
THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; AT SIX: 01 P.M. EASTERN TIME
ON JANUARY SIX, PRESIDENT
TRUMP TWEETED, THESE ARE THE
THINGS THAT HAPPENED WHEN A
SACRED LANDSLIDE ELECTION
VICTORY IS SO UNCEREMONIOUSLY
AND VICIOUSLY STRIPPED AWAY FROM
GREAT PATRIOTS WHO HAVE BEEN
BADLY AND UNFAIRLY TREATED FOR
SO LONG. ADDING FOR RIOTERS TO
GO HOME WITH LOVE AND IN PEACE.
WHAT IS THE RELEVANCE OF THIS
TWEET TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S GUILT?
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS RECOGNIZE
FOR UP TO
FIVE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS,
THIS WAS A KEY QUOTE AND THE KEY
STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT THAT
DAY. THAT HORRIFIC
DAY. REMEMBER THE CAPITAL HAD
BEEN STORMED, IT HAD BEEN
ATTACKED, PEOPLE HAVE YELLED
HAYING MIKE PENCE, PEOPLE HAD
GONE AFTER SPEAKER PELOSI,
PEOPLE BROUGHT BASEBALL BATS AND
OTHER WEAPONS. MANY MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS AND SENATE IN THE HOUSE
WERE FEARFUL FOR THEIR OWN
LIVES. THE PRESIDENT DIDN'T CALL
THE NATIONAL GUARD. HIS OWN
ADMINISTRATION DIDN'T LIST HIM
AS SOMEBODY THAT HIT THAT THEY
HAD SPOKEN WITH TO ACTIVATE THE
GUARD. AND HE SAID, REMEMBER
THIS
DAY FOREVER. SO, IF HE WAS NOT
GUILTY OF INCITING THIS
INSURRECTION, IF THIS WAS NOT
WHAT HE WANTED, IF IT WASN'T
WHAT HE DESIRED, BY THAT TIME
THE CARNAGE HAD BEEN ON
TELEVISION
FOR HOURS, HE SAW WHAT WAS GOING
ON. EVERYBODY SAW WHAT WAS GOING
ON. IF IT WASN'T WHAT HE WANTED,
WHY WOULD HE HAVE SAID REMEMBER
THIS DAY FOREVER? WHY
COMMEMORATE A DAY LIKE THAT, AN
ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITAL FOR
GOD SAKE
, WHY WOULD YOU DO THAT? UNLESS
YOU AGREED THAT IT WAS SOMETHING
TO PRAISE, NOT CONDEMN?
SOMETHING TO HOLD UP
AND COMMEMORATE. NO CONSOLING
THE NATION, NO REASSURING THAT
THE GOVERNMENT WAS SECURE, NOT A
SINGLE WORD THAT ENTIRE DAY
CONDEMNING THE ATTACK OR THE
ATTACKERS OR THE VIOLENT
INSURRECTION
AGAINST CONGRESS. THIS TWEET IS
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT SHOWS TWO
KEY POINTS ABOUT DONALD TRUMP'S
STATE OF MIND. FIRST, THIS WAS
ENTIRELY AND COMPLETELY
FORESEEABLE AND HE FORESAW IT.
AND HE HELPED INCITE IT. OVER
MANY MONTHS.
HE SAYING, I TOLD YOU THIS WAS
GOING TO HAPPEN IF YOU CERTIFIED
THE ELECTION FOR ANYONE ELSE
BESIDES ME. AND YOU GOT WHAT YOU
DESERVED FOR TRYING TO TAKE IT
AWAY FROM ME. AND WE KNOW THIS
BECAUSE THAT STATEMENT WAS
ENTIRELY CONSISTENT WITH
EVERYTHING HE SAID LEADING UP TO
THE ATTACK. SECOND, THIS SHOWS
THAT DONALD TRUMP INTENDED AND
REVELED
IN THIS. SENATORS, HE REVELED IN
THIS. HE DELIGHTED IN THIS. THIS
IS WHAT
HE WANTED. REMEMBER THIS DAY
FOREVER HE SAID, NOT AS A DAY OF
DISGRACE AS IT IS TO ALL OF US,
BUT AS A DAY OF CELEBRATION AND
COMMEMORATION. AND IF WE LET IT,
IF WE DON'T HOLD HIM ACCOUNTABLE
AND SET A STRONG PRECEDENT,
POSSIBLY A CONTINUATION
LATER ON. WE WILL OF COURSE, ALL
OF US REMEMBER THIS DAY, BUT NOT
IN THE
WAY THAT DONALD TRUMP SUGGESTED.
WE WILL REMEMBER THE BRAVERY OF
OUR CAPITAL AND METRO POLICE
FORCES. WE WILL REMEMBER THE
OFFICER WHO LOST HIS LIFE AND
SADLY THE OTHERS WHO DID AS WELL
AND THE DEVASTATION THAT WAS
DONE TO THIS COUNTRY BECAUSE OF
DONALD TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR FROM LOUISIANA.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, I SEND A
QUESTION TO THE DESK.
THE SENATORS FROM LOUISIANA, MR.
CASSIDY HAS A QUESTION FOR BOTH
COUNSEL FOR THE
FORMER PRESIDENT AND COUNSEL FOR
THE HOUSE. THE CLERK WILL READ
IT AND COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT WILL GO FIRST FOR 2
1/2 MINUTES AND THEN THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES WILL HAVE 2
1/2
MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR TOETERVILLE REPORTS
THAT HE SPOKE TO PRESIDENT TRUMP
AT
215 P.M.. HE TOLD THE PRESIDENT
THAT THE VICE PRESIDENT HAD JUST
EVACUATED. I PRESUME IT WAS
UNDERSTOOD AT
THIS TIME THAT RIOTERS HAD
ENTERED THE CAPITAL AND THREATEN
THE SAFETY OF SENATORS AND THE
VICE PRESIDENT. EVEN AFTER
HEARING
OF THIS, ATTU: 24 P.M.,
PRESIDENT TRUMP TWEETED
THAT MIKE PENCE LACKED COURAGE.
HE DID NOT CALL FOR LAW
ENFORCEMENT BACKUP UNTIL THEN.
THE TWEET AND LACK OF RESPONSE
SUGGESTS PRESIDENT TRUMP DID NOT
CARE THAT VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
WAS ENDANGERED. OR THAT LAW
ENFORCEMENT WAS OVERWHELMED.
DOES THIS SHOW THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP WAS TOLERANT OF THE
INTIMIDATION OF VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE?
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL HAVE 2 1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt;
DIRECTLY, NO. BUT, I DISPUTE THE
PREMISE OF
YOUR FAX. I DISPUTE THE FACTS
THAT ARE LAID OUT IN QUESTION.
AND, UNFORTUNATELY, WE ARE NOT
GOING TO KNOW THE ANSWER TO THE
FACTS IN THIS PROCEEDING BECAUSE
THE HOUSE DID NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE WHAT
WENT ON. WE ARE TRYING TO GET
HEARSAY FROM MR. TURBERVILLE
THAT WAS HEARSAY FROM MR. LEE I
THINK IT WAS TWO NIGHTS AGO
WHERE WE ENDED WHERE MR. LEE WAS
ACCUSED OF MAKING A STATEMENT
THAT HE NEVER MADE. BUT IT WAS A
REPORT FROM A PORTER FROM A
FRIEND OF SOMEBODY WHO HAD SOME
HEARSAY THAT THEY HEARD THE
NIGHT BEFORE AT A BAR SOMEWHERE.
I MEAN THAT IS REALLY THE KIND
OF EVIDENCE THAT THE HOUSE HAS
BROUGHT BEFORE US AND SO I HAVE
A PROBLEM WITH THE FACTS IN THE
QUESTION BECAUSE I HAVE
NO IDEA AND NOBODY FROM THE
HOUSE HAS GIVEN US ANY
OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE
ANY IDEA. BUT MR. TRUMP AND MR.
PENCE HAVE HAD A VERY GOOD
RELATIONSHIP FOR A LONG TIME AND
I'M SURE MR. TRUMP VERY MUCH IS
CONCERNED AND WAS CONCERNED FOR
THE SAFETY AND WELL-BEING OF MR.
PENCE AND EVERYBODY ELSE THAT
WAS OVER HERE.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; MANAGERS POWER OF THE HOUSE,
REPRESENTATIVES HAVE 2 1/2
MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT. YOU
KNOW MY COUNSEL SAID BEFORE THIS
HAS BEEN MY WORST EXPERIENCE IN
WASHINGTON AND FOR THAT I GUESS
WE'RE SORRY BUT MAN YOU SHOULD
HAVE BEEN HERE ON JANUARY SIX.
SO, THE COUNSEL FOR THE
PRESIDENT KEEP BLAMING THE HOUSE
FOR NOT HAVING THE EVIDENCE THAT
IS WITHIN THE SOLE POSSESSION OF
THEIR CLIENT WHO WE INVITED TO
COME AND TESTIFY IT
LAST WEEK. WE SENT A LETTER ON
FEBRUARY FOURTH I SENT IT
DIRECTLY TO PRESIDENT TRUMP
INVITING HIM TO
COME INTO EXPLAIN AND FILL IN
THE GAPS OF WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENED THERE AND THEY
SENT BACK A CONTEMPTUOUS
RESPONSE JUST A FEW HOURS LATER
I THINK THEY MAY BE EVEN
RESPONDED MORE QUICKLY TO MY
LETTER THAN PRESIDENT TRUMP DID
AS A COMMANDER IN CHIEF TO THE
INVASION AND THE STORMING OF THE
CAPITAL OF THE
UNITED STATES.
IT SUPPORTS A STRONG ADVERSE
INFERENCE. WHAT
IS THAT? IF YOU DON'T TESTIFY IN
A CRIMINAL CASE IT CAN'T BE USED
AGAINST YOU. EVERYBODY KNOWS
THAT. BUT IF IT IS A CIVIL CASE
AND YOU PLEAD THE FIFTH OR YOU
DON'T SHOW UP, THEN ACCORDING TO
THE JUSTICE AND THE REST OF THE
SUPREME COURT YOU CAN INTERPRET
EVERY DISPUTED FACTS AGAINST
THE DEFENDANT. THAT IS TOTALLY
AVAILABLE TO US. SO, FOR
EXAMPLE, IF WE SAY THE PRESIDENT
WAS MISSING IN ACTION FOR
SEVERAL HOURS AND HE WAS IN HIS
DUTY AND HE DESERTED HIS
DUTY OF COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF AND
WE SAY THAT AS INSIDER IN CHIEF
HE DIDN'T CALL OFF THUGS AND
THEY SAY HE WAS REALLY DOING
WHATEVER HE CAN IF YOU ARE
PUZZLED ABOUT THAT YOU CAN
RESOLVE THAT DISPUTE, FACTUAL
DISPUTE AGAINST THE DEFENDANT
WHO REFUSED IT TO COME TO A
CIVIL PROCEEDING. HE WILL NOT
SPEND ONE DAY IN JAIL IF YOU
CONVICT HIM. THIS IS NOT A
CRIMINAL PROCEEDING. THIS IS
ABOUT PRESERVING THE REPUBLIC
DEAR SENATE.
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ABOUT.
SETTING STANDARDS OF CONDUCT FOR
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES SO THIS NEVER HAPPENS TO
US AGAIN SO RATHER THAN YELLING
AT US AND SCREAMING ABOUT HOW WE
DIDN'T HAVE TIME TO GET ALL OF
THE FACTS ABOUT WHAT YOUR CLIENT
DID, BRING YOUR CLIENT UP HERE
AND HAVE HIM TESTIFY
UNDER OATH
ABOUT WHY HE WAS SENDING OUT
TWEETS DENOUNCING THE VICE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
WHILE THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS
BEING HUNTED DOWN BY A MOB THAT
WANTED TO HANG HIM AND WAS
CHANTING IN THIS BUILDING, HANG
MIKE PENCE, HANG MY MIKE PENCE,
TRADER, TRADER, TRADER.
&gt;&gt; TIME IS UP. NEXT QUESTION.
THE SENATOR FROM WEST VIRGINIA.
&gt;&gt; MR. SENATOR I SENT A QUESTION
TO
THE HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR FROM WEST VIRGINIA
HAS A QUESTION FOR THE HOUSE
MANAGERS. THE CLERK
WILL REPORT.
&gt;&gt; WOULD THE PRESIDENT BE MADE
AWARE OF THE FBI AND
INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION OF A
POSSIBLE ATTACK AND WOULD THE
PRESIDENT BE RESPONSIBLE FOR NOT
PREPARING TO PROTECT THE CAPITAL
AND ALL ELECTED OFFICIALS OF
GOVERNMENT WITH NATIONAL GUARD
AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AS HE DID
WHEN HE APPEARED IN FRONT OF THE
ST. JOHN'S
EPISCOPAL CHURCH?
&gt;&gt; IT IS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF
THE PRESIDENT TO KNOW. PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES, OUR
COMMANDER
IN CHIEF, ITS DAILY BRIEFINGS ON
WHAT IS HAPPENING IN THE COUNTRY
THAT HE HAS A DUTY TO PROTECT.
ADDITIONALLY, THE PRESIDENT
WOULD HAVE KNOWN JUST LIKE THE
REST OF US KNOW ALL OF THE
REPORTS THAT WERE OUT THERE AND
PUBLICLY AVAILABLE. HOW MANY OF
YOU RECEIVED CALLS SAYING TO BE
CAREFUL ON JANUARY SIXTH? TO BE
CAREFUL
THAT THEY?
I'M SEEING REPORTS. IT DOESN'T
SEEM SAFE. HOW MUCH MORE OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES?
DONALD TRUMP IS OUR COMMANDER IN
CHIEF ABSOLUTELY HAD A DUTY AND
A SWORN OATH TO PRESERVE,
PROTECT AND DEFEND US AND TO DO
THE SAME FOR THE OFFICERS UNDER
HIS COMMAND. AND HE WAS NOT JUST
OUR COMMANDER IN CHIEF, HE
INCITED THE ATTACK. THE
INSURGENTS WERE FOLLOWING HIS
COMMANDS AS WE SAW WHEN WE READ
ALOUD HIS TWEET ATTACKING THE
VICE PRESIDENT. AND WITH REGARD
TO THE VICE PRESIDENT, I'M SURE
THEY DID HAVE A GOOD
RELATIONSHIP BUT WE ALL KNOW
WHAT
CAN HAPPEN TO ONE WHO HAS A GOOD
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE PRESIDENT
WHEN YOU DECIDE TO DO SOMETHING
THAT HE DOESN'T LIKE. I'M SURE
SOME OF YOU HAVE EXPERIENCED
THAT WHEN HE TURNS AGAINST YOU
AFTER YOU DON'T FOLLOW
HIS COMMAND. YOU HEARD FROM MY
COLLEAGUES THAT WHEN PLANNING
THIS ATTACK, THE INSURGENTS
PREDICTED THAT DONALD TRUMP
WOULD COMMAND THE NATIONAL GUARD
TO
HELP THEM. WELL, HE DIDN'T DO
MUCH BETTER. HE MAY NOT HAVE
COMMANDED THE GUARD TO HELP THEM
BUT IT TOOK WAY, WAY TOO LONG
FOR HIM TO COMMAND THE GUARD TO
HELP US. THIS IS ALL CONNECTED.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
FREE SPEECH. THIS WAS A PATTERN
IN PRACTICE OF MONTHS OF
ACTIVITY. THAT IS THE
INCITEMENT, THAT IS THE
INCITEMENT, THE ACTIVITY HE WAS
ENGAGED IN FOR MONTHS BEFORE
JANUARY SIXTH, NOT JUST THE
SPEECH ON JANUARY SIX. ALL OF IT
IN ITS TOTALITY AS A DERELICTION
OF DUTY OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES AGAINST THE PEOPLE
WHO ELECTED HIM, ALL OF THE
PEOPLE OF
THIS COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM ALASKA.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT I SENT A
QUESTION TO THE DESK FOR THE
FORMER PRESIDENTS COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR OF ALASKA, SENATOR
SULLIVAN HAS A QUESTION FOR THE
HOUSE COUNSEL AND THE CLERK WILL
REPORT THE
QUESTION.
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; FOR THE FORMER PRESIDENTS
COUNCIL, SORRY ABOUT THAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGER SAID
YESTERDAY THAT DUE PROCESS
IS DISCRETIONARY, MEANING THE
HOUSE IS NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE
AND INDEED DID NOT PROVIDE IN
THIS SNAP IMPEACHMENT ANY
CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTIONS TO A
DEFENDANT IN THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS. AND
WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR
OUR CONSTITUTIONAL ORDER OF THIS
NEW
HOUSE PRECEDENT COMBINED WITH
THE SENATE'S POWER TO DISQUALIFY
FROM PUBLIC OFFICE A PRIVATE
CITIZEN AND AN
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL?
&gt;&gt; COUNSEL HAS FIVE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS A COMPLICATED
QUESTION. COULD I HAVE THAT READ
AGAIN PLEASE?
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS SAID
YESTERDAY THAT DUE PROCESS IS
DISCRETIONARY, MEANING THE HOUSE
IS
NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE AND
INDEED DID NOT PROVIDE IN THIS
SNAP IMPEACHMENT, ANY
CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTIONS TO A
DEFENDANT IN HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS. WHAT ARE THE
IMPLICATIONS FOR OUR
CONSTITUTIONAL ORDER OF THIS NEW
HOUSE PRECEDENT COMBINED WITH
THE SENATE'S POWER TO DISQUALIFY
FROM PUBLIC OFFICE A PRIVATE
CITIZEN AND AN IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL?
&gt;&gt; WELL, FIRST OF ALL, DUE
PROCESS IS
GOOD LORD. THE CONSTITUTION
REQUIRES THAT THE ACCUSED HAVE
THE RIGHT TO DUE PROCESS BECAUSE
THE POWER THAT A PROSECUTOR HAS
TO TAKE SOMEBODY'S LIBERTY WHEN
THEY ARE
PROSECUTING THEM IS THE ULTIMATE
THING THAT WE TRY TO SAVE. IN
THIS CASE, JUST NOW, IN THE LAST
TWO HOURS, WE'VE HAD
PROSECUTORIAL MISCONDUCT. WHAT
THEY JUST TRIED TO DO WAS SAY
THAT IT IS OUR BURDEN TO BRING
THEM EVIDENCE TO PROVE
THEIR CASE AND IT IS NOT. IT IS
NOT OUR BURDEN TO BRING ANY
EVIDENCE FORWARD AT ALL. WHAT IS
THE DANGER? WELL, THE DANGER IS
PRETTY OBVIOUS. IF A
MAJORITY PARTY DOESN'T LIKE
SOMEBODY IN THE MINORITY PARTY
AND THEY ARE AFRAID THEY MAY
LOSE THE ELECTION OR IF IT IS
SOMEBODY IN THE MAJORITY PARTY
AND THERE IS A PRIVATE CITIZEN
WHO WANTS TO RUN AGAINST
SOMEBODY IN THE MAJORITY PARTY,
WELL, THEY CAN SIMPLY BRING
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS AND OF
COURSE WITHOUT DUE PROCESS, THEY
ARE NOT GOING TO BE ENTITLED TO
A LAWYER, THEY ARE NOT GOING TO
BE ENTITLED TO HAVE NOTICE OF
THE CHARGES AGAINST THEM. IT
PUTS US INTO A POSITION WHERE WE
ARE THE KIND OF JUDICIAL SYSTEM
AND GOVERNING
BODY THAT WE ARE ALL VERY, VERY
AFRAID OF. FROM WHAT WE LEFT
HUNDREDS OF YEARS AGO AND WHAT
REGIMES ALL AROUND THIS WORLD
THAT
ENDANGER US, THAT IS HOW THEY
ACT. THAT IS HOW THEY CONDUCT
THEMSELVES WITHOUT GIVING THE
ACCUSED DUE PROCESS, TAKING
THEIR LIBERTY, WITHOUT GIVING
THEM JUST
A BASIC FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT UNDER
THE FIFTH TO THE 14th APPLIED TO
THE STATES DUE PROCESS. IF YOU
TAKE AWAY DUE PROCESS IN THIS
COUNTRY, FROM
THE ACCUSED, IF YOU TAKE THAT
AWAY, THERE WILL BE NO JUSTICE
AND NOBODY, NOBODY WILL BE SAFE.
BUT, IT IS PATENTLY UNFAIR FOR
THE HOUSE MANAGERS TO BRING AN
IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDING WITHOUT ANY, AGAIN,
WITHOUT ANY INVESTIGATION AT ALL
AND THEN STAND UP HERE AND SAY,
ONE, THEY HAD A CHANCE TO BRING
US EVIDENCE.
AND TWO, LET'S, LET'S, LET'S SEE
WHAT WE CAN DO ABOUT FLIPPING
AROUND SOMEBODIES OTHER
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS TO HAVING
A LAWYER OR
TO HAVING -- TO SEE THE EVIDENCE
AT ALL. IT JUST GETS BROUGHT IN
WITHOUT ANYBODY HAVING AN
OPPORTUNITY TO REVIEW IT
BEFORE HAND. THEY ACTUALLY SENT
IT TO US ON THE NINTH, THE DAY
AFTER WE STARTED THIS. SO, IT IS
A REALLY BIG PROBLEM. THE DUE
PROCESS CLAUSE APPLIES TO THIS
IMPEACHMENT HEARING AND IT HAS
BEEN SEVERELY AND EXTREMELY
VIOLATED. THIS PROCESS IS SO
UNCONSTITUTIONAL BECAUSE IT
VIOLATES
DUE PROCESS. AND I'M NOT EVEN
GOING TO GET INTO THE
JURISDICTIONAL PART. THE DUE
PROCESS PART SHOULD BE ENOUGH TO
GIVE ANYBODY WHO LOVES OUR
CONSTITUTION AND LOVES OUR
COUNTRY GREAT PAUSE TO DO
ANYTHING BUT ACQUIT DONALD
TRUMP.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; MR.
PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT I SENT A
QUESTION TO THE DESK FOR THE
HOUSE MANAGERS.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM CONNECTICUT
HAS A QUESTION FOR THE HOUSE
MANAGERS AND THE CLERK WILL
REPORT
THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
HIS ATTORNEYS HAVE CITED THE
BRANDENBURG V OHIO CASE IN
SUPPORT OF THEIR ARGUMENT THAT
THE FIRST AMENDMENT
PROTECTS TRUMP. DID THE
BRANDENBURG CASE PROHIBIT
HOLDING PUBLIC OFFICIALS
ACCOUNTABLE THROUGH THE
IMPEACHMENT PROCESS FOR THE
INCITEMENT
OF VIOLENCE?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT,
SENATORS. SO, LET'S START WITH
THE LETTER OF MORE THAN 140
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW PROFESSORS,
WHICH I THINK THEY DESCRIBED AS
PARTISAN. IN NATURE. THAT IS A
SLUR ON THE LAW PROFESSORS AND I
HOPE THAT THEY WOULD
WITHDRAW THAT
. THERE ARE VERY CONSERVATIVE
LUMINARIES ON THAT LIST
INCLUDING THE COFOUNDER OF THE
FEDERALIST SOCIETY, RONALD
REAGAN'S FORMER SOLICITOR
GENERAL, CHARLES FREED AS WELL
AS PROMINENT LAW PROFESSORS
ACROSS THE INTELLECTUAL
AUDIOLOGICAL AND SPECTRUM AND
THEY ALL CALLED THEIR FIRST
AMENDMENTS TO LILES WHICH THEY
ARE. NOW, THEY'VE RETREATED TO
THE
POSITION OF BRANDENBURG
VERSUS OHIO. EVEN ON THAT
STANDARD THIS GROUP OF LAW
PROFESSORS SAID THERE IS A VERY
STRONG ARGUMENT THAT HE'S GUILTY
EVEN UNDER THE STRICT STANDARD,
WHY?  BECAUSE HE INCITED
IMMINENT LAWLESS ACTION AND HE
INTENDED TO
DO IT HOW DO WE KNOW HE WAS
LIKELY TO CAUSE IT? HE DID CAUSE
IT. THEY OVERRAN THE CAPITAL.
RIGHT? EVEN IF YOU WANT TO HOLD
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA TO FORGET
ABOUT HIS CONSTITUTIONAL OATH OF
OFFICE AS I SAID BEFORE THAT
WOULD BE A DERELICTION ON OUR
PART IF WE SET ALL WE ARE GOING
TO DO IS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES LIKE ONE OF THE
PEOPLE HE SUMMONED TO WASHINGTON
TO COMMIT INSURRECTION AGAINST
US. OKAY. THE PRESIDENT SWORE TO
PRESERVE, PROTECT AND PRETEND
AGAINST THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
HE DOESN'T SAY GO AHEAD
AND SHOUT FIRE IN A CROWDED
THEATER HE SUMMONS THE MOB AND
SEND THEM
TO GO BURN THE THEATER DOWN AND
WHEN THEY START MADLY CALLING
THEM AND RINGING ALARM BELLS HE
WATCHES IT ON TV AND HE TAKES
HIS SWEET TIME FOR SEVERAL HOURS
HE TURNS UP THE HEAT ON THE
DEPUTY FIRE CHIEF WHO HE'S A
MATTER THAT BECAUSE HE'S NOT
MAKING IT POSSIBLE FOR HIM TO
PURSUE HIS POLITICAL OBJECTIVES.
AND THEN WHEN WE SAY WE DON'T
WANT YOU TO BE FIRE CHIEF EVER
AGAIN, HE STARTS CRYING ABOUT
THE FIRST AMENDMENT. BRANDENBURG
WAS A CASE ABOUT A BUNCH OF
KLANSMEN WHO ASSEMBLED IN A
FIELD AND
THEY WEREN'T NEAR ANYBODY SUCH
THAT THEY COULD ACTUALLY DO
VIOLENT DAMAGE TO PEOPLE BUT
THEY SAID SOME PRETTY REPULSIVE,
RACIST THINGS BUT THE SUPREME
COURT SAID THEY WEREN'T INCITING
IN AN IMMINENT LAWLESS ACTION
BECAUSE YOU COULDN'T HAVE A MOB
FOR EXAMPLE BREAK OUT THE WAY
THIS MODEL BROKE OUT AND TOOK
OVER THE CAPITAL OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA. AND BY THE
WAY, DON'T COMPARE HIM TO ONE OF
THOSE KLANSMEN IN THE FIELD
ASSERTING THEIR FIRST AMENDMENT
RIGHTS. ASSUME THAT HE WERE THE
CHIEF OF POLICE OF THE TOWN WHO
WENT DOWN TO THAT RALLY AND
STARTED CALLING FOR, YOU KNOW,
A RALLY
OF THE CITY HALL AND THEN
NURTURING THAT MOB, CULTIVATING
THAT MOB, PULLING THEM IN OVER
PERIOD OF WEEKS AND DAYS, NAMING
THE DATE AND THE TIME AND THE
PLACE, RILING THEM UP BEFORE
HAND AND THEN JUST SAYING BE MY
GUEST, GO AND STOP THE STEAL.
COME ON. BACK TO TOM PAINE, USE
YOUR COMMON SENSE. USE YOUR
COMMON SENSE. THAT IS THE
STANDARD OF PROOF WE WANT. THEY
ARE ALREADY TREATING THEIR
CLIENT LIKE HE IS
A CRIMINAL DEFENDANT. THEY'RE
ALREADY TALKING ABOUT BEYOND A
REASONABLE DOUBT. THEY THINK WE
ARE MAKING A CRIMINAL
CASE HERE.
MY FRIENDS, THE FORMER PRESIDENT
IS NOT GOING TO SPEND ONE HOUR
OR ONE MINUTE IN JAIL. THIS IS
ABOUT PROTECTING OUR REPUBLIC
AND DEFINING THE STANDARDS OF
PRESIDENTIAL CONDUCT AND IF YOU
WANT THIS TO BE A STANDARD FOR
TOTALLY APPROPRIATE PRESIDENTIAL
CONDUCT GOING FORWARD, BE MY
GUEST, BUT WE ARE HEADED FOR A
DAY VERY DIFFERENT KIND OF
COUNTRY AT THAT POINT.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM KANSAS.
&gt;&gt; I SENT A QUESTION TO THE
DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM KANSAS, MR.
MARSHALL HAS A QUESTION FOR THE
COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT. THE CLERK WILL READ
THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS SINGLE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT IS
CENTERED ON THE ACCUSATION THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP SINGULARLY
INCITED A CROWD INTO A RIOT.
DIDN'T THE HOUSE MANAGERS
CONTRADICT THEIR
OWN CHARGE BY OUTLINING THE
PREMEDITATED NATURE AND PLANNING
OF THIS EVENT AND BY ALSO
SHOWING THE CROWD WAS GATHERED
AT
THE CAPITAL EVEN BEFORE THE
SPEECH STARTED? AND BARRIERS
WERE PUSHED OVER SOME 20 MINUTES
BEFORE THE CONCLUSION OF
PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S SPEECH?
&gt;&gt; YES. THE HOUSE MANAGERS
CONTRADICTED THEIR OWN CHARGE BY
OUTLINING THE PREMEDITATED
NATURE AND PLANNING OF THIS
EVENT AND BY ALSO SHOWING THE
CROWD GATHERED AT THE CAPITAL
EVEN BEFORE THE SPEECH STARTED
AND BARRIERS WERE PUSHED OVER
SOME 20 MINUTES BEFORE THE
CONCLUSION OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
SPEECH. THE ANSWER
IS YES. AND I WANT TO TAKE THE
REST OF MY TIME TO GO BACK TO
THE LAST QUESTION BECAUSE IT WAS
COMPLETELY MISSED BY THE HOUSE
MANAGERS. BRANDENBURG VERSUS
OHIO IS AN INCITEMENT CASE. IT
IS NOT  AN ELECTED OFFICIAL
CASE. THAT'S WOOD AND BOND. AND
THE WHOLE PROBLEM THAT THE HOUSE
MANAGERS HAVE IN UNDERSTANDING
THE FIRST AMENDMENT ARGUMENT
HERE IS THAT ELECTED OFFICIALS
ARE DIFFERENT THAN EVERYBODY
ELSE. HE'S TALKING ABOUT FIRE
CHIEFS. FIRE CHIEFS ARE NOT
ELECTED OFFICIALS. POLICE
OFFICERS ARE NOT ELECTED
OFFICIALS. ELECTED OFFICIALS
HAVE
A DIFFERENT -- A HIGHER STANDARD
FROM THE HOLDINGS THAT I GAVE
YOU. THE HIGHEST PROTECTIONS I
SHOULD STAY HOME AND NOT A
HIGHER STANDARD IT IS A HIGHER
PROTECTION TO YOUR SPEECH
BECAUSE OF THE IMPORTANCE OF
POLITICAL DIALOGUE BECAUSE OF
WHAT YOU ALL SAY IN YOUR PUBLIC
DEBATE
THINGS THAT AFFECT ALL OF
OUR LIVES, THAT IS WICKED
IMPORTANT STUFF AND YOU SHOULD
BE FREE TO TALK ABOUT THAT IN
JUST ABOUT ANY WAY THAT YOU
CAN. BRANDENBURG COMES INTO PLAY
FROM A CONSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
PERSPECTIVE WHEN YOU ARE TALKING
ABOUT INCITEMENT. IS THE SPEECH
ITSELF INSIGHTFUL? TO RIOT? OR
LAWLESSNESS? ONE OF THE TWO. AND
THE ANSWER HERE IS NO. AND
BRANDENBURG THROUGH, AGAIN,
BIBLE BELIEVERS,
REQUIRE YOU TO LOOK AT THE WORDS
OF THE SPEECH. YOU ACTUALLY
CAN'T
GO OUTSIDE THE WORDS OF THE
SPEECH. ARE NOT ALLOWED TO IN
THE ANALYSIS. SO, ALL THE TIME
THEY ARE TRYING TO SPEND ON
TWEETS GOING BACK
TO 2015 OR EVERYTHING THEY WANT
TO FOCUS ON THAT WAS SAID IN THE
HOURS AND THE DAYS AFTERWARDS
ARE NOT APPLICABLE
OR RELEVANT TO THE SCHOLASTIC
INQUIRY AS TO HOW THE FIRST
AMENDMENT IS APPLIED IN THIS
CHAMBER IN THIS PROCEEDING. AND
SO, AGAIN, YOU NEED TO BE
FOCUSED ON WHAT'S
THE LAW? AND THEN HOW DO WE
APPLY IT TO THIS SET OF FACTS.
AND SO IT IS IMPORTANT TO HAVE
THAT UNDERSTANDING THAT ELECTED
OFFICIALS AND FIRE CHIEFS ARE
TREATED DIFFERENTLY UNDER FIRST
AMENDMENT LAW. AND THAT IS TO
THE BENEFIT OF YOU-ALL, WHICH IS
THE BENEFIT OF US ALL BECAUSE WE
DO WANT YOU TO BE ABLE TO SPEAK
FREELY WITHOUT FEAR THAT THE
MAJORITY PARTY IS GOING TO COME
IN AND IMPEACH YOU OR COME IN
AND
PROSECUTE YOU. TO TRY TO TAKE
AWAY YOUR SEAT WHERE YOU
SIT NOW. THAT'S NOT WHAT THE
CONSTITUTION SAYS SHOULD
BE DONE. BUT YES, THEY DO. THEY
DO CONTRADICT THEMSELVES. OF
COURSE.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM MARYLAND.
&gt;&gt; I SEND A QUESTION TO THE
HOUSE DESK FOR THE HOUSE
MANAGERS.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM MARYLAND,
SENATOR VAN HOLLEN HAS
A QUESTION FOR THE MANAGERS, THE
CLERK WILL REPORT
THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; WOULD YOU PLEASE RESPOND TO
THE ANSWER THAT WAS JUST GIVEN
BY THE FORMER
PRESIDENTS COUNCIL?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, THANK YOU. I'M
NOT QUITE SURE WHICH QUESTION
THE SENATOR WAS REFERRING TO BUT
LET ME QUICKLY JUST DISPENSE OF
THE COUNCILS INVOCATION AGAIN OF
BOND VERSUS FLOYD. THIS IS A
CASE I KNOW WELL AND I
THINK IN PRAISING IT, JULIAN
BOND WAS A FRIEND OF MINE, A
COLLEAGUE OF MINE IN AMERICAN
UNIVERSITY, HE WAS A GREAT
CIVIL-RIGHTS HERO AND IN HIS
CASE, HE GOT ELECTED TO THE
GEORGIA STATE LEGISLATURE AND AS
A MEMBER OF THE STUDENT
NONVIOLENT COORDINATING
COMMITTEE, THE GREAT COMMITTEE
HEADED UP BY
THE GREAT BOB MOSES FOR A LONG
TIME, HE GOT ELECTED TO THE
GEORGIA LEGISLATURE AND THEY
DIDN'T WANT TO ALLOW HIM TO BE
SWORN IN. THEY WOULDN'T ALLOW
HIM TO TAKE HIS OATH OF OFFICE
BECAUSE HE HAD TAKEN A POSITION
AGAINST THE VIETNAM WAR AND SO
THE SUPREME COURT SAID THAT WAS
A VIOLATION OF HIS FIRST
AMENDMENT RIGHTS NOT TO ALLOW
HIM TO BE SWORN IN. THAT IS THE
COMPLETE OPPOSITE OF DONALD
TRUMP. NOT ONLY WAS HE SWORN IN
ON
JANUARY 20th 2017, HE WAS
PRESIDENT FOR ALMOST 4 YEARS
BEFORE HE INCITED THIS VIOLENT
INSURRECTION AGAINST US AND HE
VIOLATED HIS OATH OF OFFICE,
THAT IS WHAT THIS IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL IS ABOUT, HIS VIOLATION OF
HIS OATH OF OATH OF OFFICE AND
HIS REFUSAL TO UPHOLD THE LAW
AND TAKE CARE THAT THE LAWS ARE
FAITHFULLY EXECUTED, PLEASE
DON'T DESECRATE THE NAME OF
JULIAN BOND, A GREAT
AMERICAN BY LINKING HIM WITH
THIS TERRIBLE PLOT AGAINST
AMERICA THAT JUST TOOK PLACE IN
THE STORMING OF THE
CAPITAL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU. LET'S JUST BE
CLEAR. PRESIDENT TRUMP SUMMONED
THE MOB, ASSEMBLED
THE MOB AND ALTHOUGH HE COULD'VE
IMMEDIATELY AND FORCEFULLY
INTERVENED TO STOP THE VIOLENCE,
HE DIDN'T. IN OTHER WORDS, THIS
ATTACK WOULD NOT HAVE HAPPENED
WITHOUT HIM. THIS ATTACK IS NOT
ABOUT
ONE SPEECH. MOST OF YOU MEN
WOULD NOT HAVE YOUR WIVES WITH
ONE ATTEMPT TO TALKING
TO HER. IT TOOK NUMEROUS TRIES.
HAD TO BUILD IT UP. THAT'S WHAT
THE PRESIDENT DID AS WELL. HE
PUT TOGETHER THE GROUP THAT
WOULD DO WHAT HE WANTED AND THAT
WAS TO STOP THE CERTIFICATION OF
THE ELECTION SO THAT HE COULD
RETAIN POWER TO BE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES IN
CONTRAVENTION OF AN
AMERICAN ELECTION.
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT?
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM FLORIDA.
&gt;&gt; I SENT A QUESTION TO
THE DESK.
THE CLERK WILL READ THE QUESTION
AND THE HOUSE MANAGERS WILL GO
FIRST FOR THE FIRST 2
1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; VOTING TO CONVICT THE FORMER
WOULD A FORMER OFFICIAL WOULD
BE CONVICTED THEREFORE IS IT NOT
TRUE THAT UNDER THIS NEW
PRESIDENT PRESIDENT, FUTURE
HOUSE FACING
PARTISAN PRESSURE TO LOCK UP
COULD IMPEACH A FORMER SECRETARY
OF STATE AND A FUTURE SENATE BE
FORCED TO PUT HER ON TRIAL
POTENTIALLY QUALIFY FOR ANY
FUTURE OFFICE.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS
GO FIRST.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, SENATORS,
THREE QUICK POINTS. FIRST OF ALL
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY TIMES I
CAN SAY IT, THE JURISDICTIONAL
ISSUE IS OVER. THE SENATE
SETTLED IT. THE SENATE
ENTERTAINED JURISDICTION EXACTLY
THE WAY IT WAS DONE SINCE THE
VERY BEGINNING OF THE REPUBLIC.
IN THE BLUNT CASE, IN THE BELNAP
CASE AND YOU WILL REMEMBER BOTH
OF THEM
FORMER OFFICIALS. AND IN THIS
CASE WE HAVE A PRESIDENT WHO
COMMITTED WHILE HE WAS IN OFFICE
HE WAS IMPEACHED BY THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES WHILE HE WAS IN
OFFICE. SO, YOU KNOW, THE
HYPOTHETICAL SUGGESTED BY
THE GENTLEMAN
FROM FLORIDA HAS NO BEARING ON
THIS CASE BECAUSE I DON'T THINK
YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT AN
OFFICIAL WHO WAS IMPEACHED WHILE
THEY WERE IN OFFICE FOR CONDUCT
THEY COMMITTED WHILE THEY WERE
IN OFFICE.
&gt;&gt; THE COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT HAS 2 1/2 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU. THAT I HAVE THE
QUESTION AGAIN TO MAKE SURE I
GET
IT RIGHT? I CAN ANSWER DIRECTLY.
&gt;&gt; VOTING TO CONVICT THE FORMER
PRESIDENT WOULD CREATE A NEW
PRECEDENT THAT THE FORMER
OFFICIAL CAN BE CONVICTED AND
DISQUALIFIED BY THE SENATE,
THEREFORE, IS IT NOT TRUE THAT
UNDER
THIS NEW PRESIDENT A FUTURE
HOUSE FACING PARTISAN PRESSURE
TO LOCK HER UP COULD IMPEACH A
FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE AND A
FUTURE SENATE
BE FORCED TO PUT HER ON TRIAL
AND POTENTIALLY DISQUALIFY FROM
ANY FUTURE OFFICE?
&gt;&gt; IF YOU SEE IT THEIR WAY, YES.
IF YOU DO THIS THE WAY THEY WANT
IT DONE, THAT
THE EXAMPLE THERE, FORMATIVE
SECRETARY OF STATE. BUT IT CAN
HAPPEN A LOT
OF PEOPLE. AND THAT IS NOT THE
WAY IT WAS SUPPOSED TO WORK. IT
COULD BECOME MUCH MORE REGULAR
TOO. BUT I WANT TO ADDRESS THAT
-- AND I WANT YOU TO BE CLEAR ON
THIS, MR. RASKIN CAN'T TELL YOU
ON WHAT ROUNDS YOU ACQUIT. IF
YOU BELIEVE EVEN THOUGH THERE
WAS A
VOTE THAT THIS JURISDICTION IF
YOU BELIEVE THAT IT IS
UNCONSTITUTIONAL YOU CAN STILL
BELIEVE THAT. IF YOU BELIEVE
THAT THE HOUSE DID NOT GIVE
APPROPRIATE DUE PROCESS IN THIS,
THAT CAN BE YOUR REASON TO
ACQUIT. IF YOU DON'T THINK THEY
MEANT
THEIR BURDEN IN PROVING
INCITEMENTS THAT THESE WORDS
INCITED THE VIOLENCE, YOU CAN
ACQUIT. MR. RASKIN DOESN'T GET
TO GIVE YOU UNDER WHAT GROUNDS
YOU CAN ACQUIT. AND SO YOU HAVE
TO
LOOK AT WHAT THEY'VE PUT ON. IN
ITS TOTALITY AND COME TO YOUR
OWN UNDERSTANDING AS TO WHETHER
YOU THINK THEY'VE MET THEIR
BURDEN TO IMPEACH. THE
ORIGINAL QUESTION IS AN
ABSOLUTELY SLIPPERY SLOPE THAT I
DON'T REALLY THINK ANYBODY HERE
WANTS TO SEND THIS COUNTRY DOWN.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, THE QUESTION
TO THE DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE FROM COLORADO
SENDING A QUESTION TO THE DESK.
I WOULD NOTE
JUST FOR
AS THE HOURS TEND TO GET LAID, I
WOULD NOTE FOR ALL COUNSEL AS
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS NOTED ON
JANUARY
21st, 2020, THE TRIAL IN 1905,
ALL PARTIES TO
THIS CHAMBER MUST REFRAIN FROM
USING LANGUAGE THAT IS NOT
CONDUCIVE TO
CIVIL DISCOURSE. SENATOR
FROM COLORADO SENATOR BENNETT
HAS A QUESTION FOR THE HOUSE
MANAGER AND THE CLERK WILL READ
THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; SINCE THE NOVEMBER ELECTION,
THE GEORGIA SECRETARY OF STATE,
THE VICE PRESIDENT AND OTHER
PUBLIC
OFFICIALS WITH WITHSTOOD
ENORMOUS PRESSURE TO UPHOLD THE
LAWFUL ELECTION OF PRESIDENT
BIDEN AND THE RULE OF LAW. WHAT
WOULD HAVE HAPPENED IF THESE
OFFICIALS HAD VOWED TO THE FORCE
PRESIDENT TRUMP EXERTED OR THE
MOB THAT ATTACKED
THE CAPITAL?
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE
FIVE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO TAKE A MINUTE AND
REMIND EVERYBODY ABOUT THE
INCREDIBLE PRESSURE THAT DONALD
TRUMP WAS PUTTING ON ELECTION
OFFICIALS IN DIFFERENT STATES IN
THIS COUNTRY. AND THE
INTIMIDATION THAT HE
WAS ISSUING. I WANT TO REMIND
EVERYBODY OF THE BACKGROUND OF
DONALD TRUMP'S CALL 21 SECRETARY
OF STATE, THE SECRETARY OF STATE
FROM GEORGIA
, MR. RUFFINS BERGER. DONALD
TRUMP TRIED TO OVERTURN THE
ELECTION BY ANY MEANS NECESSARY.
HE TRIED AGAIN AND AGAIN TO
PRESSURE AND THREATEN ELECTION
OFFICIALS TO OVERTURN THE
ELECTION RESULTS. HE PRESSURED
MICHIGAN OFFICIALS CALLING THEM
LATE AT NIGHT AND HOSTING THEM
AT THE WHITE HOUSE. HE DID THE
SAME THING WITH OFFICIALS IN
PENNSYLVANIA. HE CALLED INTO A
LOCAL MEETING OF THE
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE AND HE
ALSO HOSTED THEM AT THE WHITE
HOUSE WHERE HE PRESSURED THEM.
AND IN GEORGIA, IT WAS EVEN
WORSE. HE SENT TWEET AFTER TWEET
ATTACKING THE SECRETARY OF STATE
UNTIL HE GOT DEATH THREATS TO
HIM AND
HIS FAMILY. HIS WIFE GOT A TEXT
THAT SAID, QUOTE, YOUR HUSBAND
DESERVES FACING A FIRING SQUAD.
A FIRING SQUAD. FOR DOING HIS
JOB. MR. RUFFINS BERGER STOOD UP
AND TOLD THE
WORLD THAT ELECTIONS ARE THE
SOCIETY AND THE VOTES WERE
ACCURATELY COUNTED FOR DONALD
TRUMP'S
OPPONENT. OFFICIALS LIKE MR.
STERLING WARNED TRUMP THAT IF
THIS CONTINUED, SOMEONE IS GOING
TO
GET KILLED. BUT DONALD TRUMP
DIDN'T STOP. HE ESCALATED IT
EVEN FURTHER. HE MADE A PERSONAL
CALL. YOU HEARD THAT CALL
BECAUSE IT WAS RECORDED. THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
TOLD A SECRETARY OF STATE THAT
IF HE DOES NOT FIND VOTES, HE
WILL FACE CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
PLEASE SENATORS CONSIDER THAT
FOR A SECOND. THE PRESIDENT
PUTTING ALL OF THIS PUBLIC AND
PRIVATE PRESSURE ON
ELECTION OFFICIALS TELLING THEM
THAT THEY COULD FACE CRIMINAL
PENALTIES IF THEY DON'T DO WHAT
HE WANTS. AND NOT JUST ANY
NUMBER OF VOTES THAT HE WAS
LOOKING FOR. DONALD TRUMP WAS
ASKING THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO
SOMEHOW FIND THE EXACT NUMBER OF
VOTES OF DONALD TRUMP LOST THE
STATE BY. REMEMBER PRESIDENT
BIDEN WON GEORGIA BY
11,779 VOTES. IN HIS OWN WORDS,
PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID, QUOTE, ALL
I WANT TO DO IS THIS, I JUST
WANT TO FIND 11,780 VOTES. HE
WANTED THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO
SOMEHOW FIND THE PRECISE NUMBER
+1 OF VOTES THAT HE NEEDED
TO WIN. AS A CONGRESS AND AS A
NATION, WE CANNOT BE NUMB TO
THIS CONDUCT. IF
WE ARE, AND IF WE DON'T SET A
PRECEDENT AGAINST IT, MORE
PRESIDENTS WILL DO THIS IN THE
FUTURE. THIS WILL BE A
GREEN LIGHT FOR THEM TO ENGAGE
IN THAT KIND OF PRESSURE AND
THAT KIND OF CONDUCT. AND THIS
COULD HAVE GONE A VERY DIFFERENT
WAY IF THOSE ELECTION
OFFICIALS HAD BOWED TO THE
INTIMIDATION AND THE PRESSURE OF
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES. IT WOULD'VE MEANT THAT
INSTEAD OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
DECIDING THE SELECTION,
PRESIDENT TRUMP ALONE WOULD HAVE
DECIDED THIS
AMERICAN ELECTION. THAT IS
EXACTLY WHAT WAS AT STAKE AND
THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT HE WAS
TRYING TO DO.
HE INTENDED, WANTED TO AND TRIED
TO OVERTURN THE ELECTION BY ANY
MEANS NECESSARY. HE TRIED
EVERYTHING ELSE THAT HE COULD TO
DO TO WIN.
HE STARTED INCITING THE CROWD,
ISSUING TWEET AFTER TWEET,
ISSUING COMMANDS TO STOP THE
COUNT, STOP THE STEAL. WORKED UP
THE CROWD
. SENT A SAVE THE DATE. SO, IT
WASN'T JUST ONE SPEECH OR ONE
THING. HE WAS TRYING EVERYTHING.
HE WAS PRESSURING ELECTED
OFFICIALS. HE WAS RILING UP HIS
BASE TELLING THEM THE ELECTION
HAD BEEN STOLEN FROM THEM. THAT
IT HAD BEEN STOLEN FROM HIM. IT
WAS A COMBINATION OF THINGS THAT
ONLY DONALD TRUMP COULD HAVE
DONE. AND FOR US TO BELIEVE
OTHERWISE IS TO THINK THAT
SOMEHOW, A RABBIT CAME OUT OF
THE HAT AND HIS MOB JUST SHOWED
UP HERE ON THEIR OWN ALL BY
THEMSELVES. THIS IS DANGEROUS,
SENATORS. AND THE FUTURE OF OUR
DEMOCRACY TRULY RESTS IN
YOUR HANDS.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, THE SENATOR
FROM TEXAS.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, I SENT A
QUESTION TO THE DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM TEXAS HAS A
QUESTION
FOR BOTH COUNSEL FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT AND THE HOUSE MANAGER.
THE CLERK WILL READ THE
QUESTION AND RECOGNIZE FIRST THE
COUNSEL FOR THE
FORMER PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE
ARGUED THAT IF THE SENATE CANNOT
CONVICT FORMER OFFICERS, THEN
THE CONSTITUTION CREATES A
JANUARY EXCEPTION. PURSUANT TO
WHICH A PRESIDENT IS FREE TO ACT
WITH IMPUNITY BECAUSE HE IS NOT
SUBJECT TO IMPEACHMENT,
CONVICTION AND REMOVAL
AND/OR DISQUALIFICATION. BUT,
ISN'T A PRESIDENT SUBJECT TO
CRIMINAL PROSECUTION AFTER HE
LEAVES OFFICE FOR ACTS COMMITTED
IN OFFICE EVEN IF THOSE ACTS ARE
COMMITTED
IN JANUARY?
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM TEXAS AS
QUESTION RAISES A VERY, VERY
IMPORTANT POINT. THERE IS NO
SUCH THING AS A JANUARY
EXCEPTION TO IMPEACHMENT. THERE
WAS ONLY THE TEXT OF THE
CONSTITUTION WHICH MAKES IT VERY
CLEAR THAT A FORMER PRESIDENT IS
SUBJECT TO CRIMINAL SANCTION
AFTER HIS PRESIDENCY FOR ANY
ILLEGAL ACTS
HE COMMITS. THERE IS NO JANUARY
EXCEPTION TO IMPEACHMENT, THERE
IS SIMPLY A WAY WE TREAT HIGH
CRIMES
AND MISDEMEANORS. ALLEGEDLY
COMMITTED BY A PRESIDENT WHEN HE
IS IN
OFFICE IMPEACHMENT AND HOW WE
TREAT CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR BY A
PRIVATE CITIZEN WHEN THEY ARE
NOT
IN OFFICE.
&gt;&gt; THE
HOUSE MANAGERS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THIS EXCELLENT
QUESTION. WOULDN'T A PRESIDENT
WHO DECIDES TO COMMIT HIS CRIMES
IN THE LAST FEW WEEKS IN OFFICE
LIKE
PRESIDENT TRUMP BY INCITING THE
INSURRECTION AGAINST THE
COUNTING OF ELECTORAL COLLEGE
VOTES BE SUBJECT TO CRIMINAL
PROSECUTION BY THE U.S. ATTORNEY
FROM THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
FOR EXAMPLE THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE? OF COURSE HE WOULD BE.
BUT THAT IS TRUE OF THE
PRESIDENT REGARDLESS OF WHEN HE
COMMITS HIS OFFENSES AND OFFICE.
IN OTHER WORDS THAT IS FOR IF HE
TRIED
TO SAVE AN INSURRECTION AGAINST
THE UNION IS HIS THIRD OR SECOND
YEAR IN OFFICE. YOU COULD SAY HE
COULD BE PROSECUTED AFTERWARDS.
THE REASON THAT THE FRAMERS GAVE
CONGRESS, THE HOUSE THE POWER TO
IMPEACH THE SENATE THE POWER TO
TRY AND CONVICT, REMOVE AND
DISQUALIFY WAS
TO PROTECT.
WE DON'T COME HERE
IN ANGER WE COME HERE IN THE
SPIRIT OF PROTECTING OUR
REPUBLIC AND THAT IS WHAT IT IS
ALL ABOUT. BUT THERE
JANUARY EXCEPTION WOULD
ESSENTIALLY INVITE PRESIDENTS
AND OTHER CIVIL OFFICERS TO RUN
RAMPANT IN THE LAST FEW WEEKS IN
OFFICE ON THE THEORY THAT THE
HOUSE AND THE SENATE WOULDN'T BE
ABLE TO GET IT TOGETHER IN TIME
CERTAINLY ACCORDING TO THEIR
DEMANDS FOR MONTHS AND MONTHS OF
INVESTIGATION WOULDN'T BE ABLE
TO
GET IT TOGETHER IN TIME IN ORDER
TO VINDICATE THE CONSTITUTION.
THAT CAN'T BE RIGHT. THAT CAN'T
BE RIGHT. WE KNOW THAT THE
PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF POWER IS
ALWAYS THE MOST DANGEROUS MOMENT
FOR DEMOCRACIES AROUND THE
WORLD. TALK TO
THE DIPLOMATS. TALK TO THE
HISTORIANS. THEY WILL TELL YOU
THAT IS A MOMENT OF DANGER.
THAT'S WHEN YOU GET THE COOS,
THE INSURRECTIONS, THAT'S WHEN
YOU GET THE SEDITIOUS PLOTS AND
YOU KNOW WHAT YOU DON'T EVEN
HAVE
TO READ HISTORY FOR THAT. YOU
DON'T HAVE TO CONSULT THE
FRAMERS OR LOOK AROUND THE
WORLD. IT JUST HAPPENED TO US.
THE MOMENT WHEN WE WERE JUST
GOING TO COLLECT THE ALREADY
CERTIFIED ELECTORAL COLLEGE
VOTES FROM THE STATES BY THE
POPULAR MAJORITIES WITHIN EACH
STATE EXCEPT FOR MAINE AND
NEBRASKA WHICH DO IT BY
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT AS WELL
AS STATEWIDE BUT OTHERWISE IT IS
JUST THE POPULAR MAJORITIES IN
THE STATE THAT WE ARE ABOUT TO
CERTIFY IT AND WE GOT HIT BY A
VIOLENT INSURRECTIONARY MOB.
DON'T TAKE OUR MOB FOR IT.
LISTEN TO THE TAPES UNLESS THEY
ARE GOING TO CLAIM THOSE ARE
FABRICATED TOO AND THE PEOPLE
ARE YELLING THIS IS OUR HOUSE
NOW.
&gt;&gt; TIME IS
A. UP.
&gt;&gt;
MAJORITY LEADER.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT IS IS MY
UNDERSTANDING THERE ARE NO
FURTHER QUESTIONS ON
EITHER SIDE.
&gt;&gt; REPUBLICAN LEADER?
&gt;&gt; THAT'S CORRECT. NO FURTHER
QUESTIONS ON MY SIDE.
&gt;&gt; I ASK UNANIMOUS CONSENT THAT
THE TIME BE EXPIRED.
&gt;&gt; WITHOUT OBJECTION, SORTED.
&gt;&gt; NOW MR. PRESIDENT I ASK
UNANIMOUS CONSENT THAT IT BE IN
ORDER FOR MYSELF AND SENATOR
McCONNELL
TO SPEAK FOR UP TO ONE MINUTE
EACH AND THEN IT BE IN ORDER FOR
ME TO MAKE A UNANIMOUS CONSENT
TO REQUEST LEGISLATIVE
SECTION.
&gt;&gt; SO ORDERED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT. MR.
PRESIDENT IN A MOMENT I WILL ASK
THE SENATE TO PASS LEGISLATION
THAT WOULD AWARD CAPITAL POLICE
OFFICER EUGENE GOODMAN THE
CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL. IN THE
WEEKS AFTER THE ATTACK ON
JANUARY SIXTH, THE WORLD LEARNED
ABOUT THE INCREDIBLE, INCREDIBLE
BRAVERY OF OFFICER GOODMAN ON
THAT FATEFUL DAY. HERE IN THIS
TRIAL, WE SAW NEW VIDEO,
POWERFUL
VIDEO, SHOWING
CALMNESS UNDER PRESSURE. HIS
COURAGE IN THE LINE OF DUTY. HIS
FORESIGHT IN THE MIDST OF CHAOS
AND HIS WILLINGNESS TO MAKE
HIMSELF A TARGET OF THE MOBS
RAGE SO THAT OTHERS MIGHT REACH
SAFETY. OFFICER GOODMAN IS IN
THE CHAMBER TONIGHT. OFFICER
GOODMAN, THANK YOU. [
APPLAUSE ]
&gt;&gt; BEFORE WE MOVED TO PASS THIS
LEGISLATION I WANT TO BE CLEAR
THAT HE WAS NOT ALONE THAT DAY.
THE NATION SAW AND HAS NOW SEEN
NUMEROUS EXAMPLES OF THE HEROIC
CONDUCT OF THE CAPITOL POLICE,
THE METROPOLITAN POLICE, THE
S.W.A.T. TEAMS THAT WERE WITH US
ON JANUARY SIXTH HERE IN THE
CAPITAL PROTECTING US. OUR
HEARTFELT GRATITUDE EXTENDS TO
EACH AND EVERY ONE OF THEM,
PARTICULARLY NOW, AS MEMBERS OF
THE FORCE CONTINUE TO
BEAR SCARS SEEN IN DENVER SEEN
FROM THE EVENTS OF THAT
DISGRACEFUL DAY. LET US GIVE
THEM ALL THE HONOR AND
RECOGNITION THEY SO JUSTLY
DESERVE. [ APPLAUSE ]
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE REPUBLICAN LEADER.
&gt;&gt; PLEASED TO JOIN THE MAJORITY
LEADER'S REQUEST, JANUARY SIX
WAS A DAY OF FEAR FOR THOSE WHO
WORK HERE IN THE CAPITAL AND OF
SADNESS FOR MANY MORE WATCHING
FROM AFAR. BUT THAT AWFUL DAY
ALSO INTRODUCED TO THE NATION TO
A GROUP OF HEROES WHO WE AND
CONGRESS WERE ALREADY CALLED TO
CALL THE
COLLEAGUES AND TO WHOM WE OWE A
GREAT DEATH. IN THE FACE OF
LAWLESSNESS LAWLESSNESS, THE
U.S. CAPITAL NO DOUBT THE
FOLLOWING SENTENCED OF THEIR
OATS. IF NOT FOR THE QUICK
THINKING AND BRAVERY OF OFFICER
EUGENE GOODMAN, IN PARTICULAR,
PEOPLE IN THIS CHAMBER MAY NOT
HAVE ESCAPED THAT
DAY UNHARMED. OFFICER GOODMAN
REACTIONS REACT UPON ALL HIS
BRAVE BROTHERS AND SISTERS IN
UNIFORM. SO I'M PROUD THE
SENATOR HAS TAKEN A STEP FORWARD
RECOGNIZING HIS HEROISM WITH THE
HIGHEST HONOR WE
CAN BESTOW. [ APPLAUSE ]
&gt;&gt; SO MR. PRESIDENT, AS IF IN
LATEST THAT INFLATION I ASK
UNANIMOUS CONSENT THAT THE
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING
AND URBAN AFFAIRS BE DISCHARGED
FROM FURTHER
CONSIDERATION OF S 35 AND AT THE
PLACENTA PROCEED TO ITS
IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION.
&gt;&gt;
WITHOUT OBJECTION. AND THE CLERK
WILL REPORT.
&gt;&gt; S 35 AVAIL TO AWARD A
CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO
OFFICER
EUGENE GOODMAN.
&gt;&gt; WITHOUT OBJECTION THE
COMMITTEE IS DISCHARGED AND THE
SENATE
NOW PROCEEDS TO THE MAJOR.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT I ASK UNANIMOUS
CONSENT THAT THE VAN HOLLEN
SUBSTITUTE AMENDMENT WHICH IS AT
THE DESK BE CONSIDERED AND
AGREED TO PICK THE BILL AS
AMENDED BE CONSIDERED A THIRD
TIME AND PASSED AND THE MOTIONS
TO RECONSIDER BE CONSIDERED MADE
AND LAID UPON
THE TABLE.
&gt;&gt; WITHOUT OBJECTION, SO
ORDERED.
&gt;&gt; NOW MR. PRESIDENT I ASK
UNANIMOUS CONSENT THE TRIAL
ADJOURNED UNTIL 10 A.M. TOMORROW
SATURDAY FEBRUARY 13th AND THAT
THIS ALSO CONSTITUTE THE
ADJOURNMENT OF THE SENATE.
&gt;&gt; WITHOUT OBJECTION WE ARE
ADJOURNED UNTIL 10:00 TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; AND DAVE FOR THE INPUT
IMPEACHMENT TRAVEL ENDS ON
BIPARTISANSHIP AS THEY GIVE A
STANDING OVATION TO OFFICER
GOODMAN AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THE
POLICE AND YOU HEARD THEM TALK
ABOUT
GETTING THAT GOLD MEDAL, THE
CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL TO OFFICER
GOODMAN. SO, THAT COMES AFTER A
QUESTION-AND-ANSWER PERIOD THAT
IS WRAPPED
UP NOW AND WE WON'T SEE ANY MORE
OF THIS TRIAL AND TELL 10:00
TOMORROW MORNING WHICH MEANS WE
WILL BE BACK TOMORROW AT NINE
A.M.. THIS IS THE WASHINGTON
SUPPOSED WASHINGTON POST SPECIAL
REPORT. YOU CAN SEE MITCH
McCONNELL LEAVING NOW. SO, THE
QUESTIONS WE HEARD TONIGHT WERE
LARGELY LEADING AND BASICALLY AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR EACH SIDE TO
MAKE POINTS BUT WE DID HEAR HIM
FULL OF SUBSTANTIVE QUESTIONS
ALONG THE WAY. HERE TO TALK
ABOUT THE DAY, CAPITOL HILL
REPORTER RHONDA COLVIN, LA VILLA
KNOX AND
JAMES HOLMAN, WASHINGTON POST
COLUMNIST. WELCOME TO YOU ALL.
RHONDA, LET'S START
WITH YOU.
YOU KNOW, THEY COULD'VE USED
EVEN MORE TIME OF THIS Q&amp;A
PERIOD, THEY DID NOT. PERHAPS
SOMEWHAT MERCIFULLY AT THIS
POINT BECAUSE IT IS BEEN SUCH A
LONG DAY AND LONG WEEK. BUT
LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT ANSWERS OR
WHAT NEW INFORMATION WE MAY HAVE
GONE THROUGH THAT PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT. YOU ARE CORRECT IN
SAYING THERE WERE A LOT OF
LEADING QUESTIONS. THERE SEEM TO
BE QUESTIONS WHERE SOME SENATORS
WHO HAVE ALREADY MADE UP THEIR
MIND ON HOW THEY ARE GOING TO
VOTE, THEY PRESENTED QUESTIONS
TO LET THE DEFENSE OR THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS UNDERSCORE
SOME OF THEIR EARLIER ARGUMENTS
AND YOU CAN SEE THAT BOTH SIDES
LAWYERS FOR FORMER PRESIDENT
TRUMP AS WELL AS THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS WERE A LITTLE BIT MORE
FIERY THAN WE HAD SEEN EARLIER
THIS WEEK. THE EARLIER PARTS OF
THE OPENING ARGUMENTS SEEM TO
FOLLOW THAT SENSE OF DECORUM BUT
TODAY YOU SAW THE DEFENSE
LAWYERS REALLY DIG IN AND THIS
QUESTION-AND-ANSWER PERIOD AND
KIND OF PIVOT AWAY FROM SOME
SPECIFIC QUESTIONS ABOUT
RESIDENT TRUMPS CONDUCT AND
INSTEAD SAY THAT THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS DID NOT ALLOW DUE
PROCESS AND THIS WAS A SHAM
PROCESS AND POINTED TO SOME OF
THEIR EARLIER CLAIMS TODAY THAT
THE EXHIBITS WERE MANUFACTURED
BY THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AND
YOU COULD TELL THAT SOME OF THE
QUESTIONS THEY RECEIVED FROM
SOME REPUBLICANS WERE LEADING
YOU IN A WAY THAT THEY COULD
KIND OF EXPOUND ON THEIR
FEELINGS
ABOUT THAT. I THINK ONE OF THE
MOST IMPORTANT TAKEAWAYS FROM
THIS PORTION IS THAT WE DID SEE
QUESTIONS FROM SOME OF THESE
SENATORS THAT WE ARE LOOKING AT
FOR HOW THEY ARE GOING TO OAT
VOTE. THEY ARE IN THAT MAYBE
CALL HIM RIGHT NOW THAT SENATOR
ROMNEY, MICHALSKI AND COLLINS,
THEY ALL ASKED
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT TRUMP KNEW
AND WHEN DID HE KNOW IT.
SPECIFICS ABOUT WHEN
HE SPENT SENT THE DISPARAGING
TWEET AND THE TIMING ABOUT THAT.
THEY WANTED TO KNOW MORE ABOUT
THAT AND THOSE WERE TIMES YOU
SAW THE DEFENSE SAY THAT THEY
DIDN'T HAVE THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT OFFICER SUPPLY
ENOUGH EVIDENCE AND THEY NEVER
REALLY GOT TO THE CORE OF THAT.
AT ONE POINT ONE OF THE DEFENSE
TEAM MEMBERS IT WAS NOT ABOUT
WHAT THE PRESIDENT WAS DOING
DURING THE ATTACK SO THAT WAS
ONE OF THE ATTACKS THEY GOT NEAR
BEING IT BUT THEY WERE STILL
VERY VAGUE ABOUT IT BUT YES,
THIS COULD HAVE LASTED UP TO
FOUR HOURS.
THEY DID AGREE TO ROLL SAYING
THE QUESTION-AND-ANSWER PERIOD
COULD BE FOUR HOURS AND OF
COURSE THEY DID NOT UTILIZE ALL
OF THAT TIME AND HAVE NOW
WRAPPED FOR THE DAY.
&gt;&gt; THANKS SO MUCH. YOU KNOW
THERE WAS SO MUCH FOCUS ON WHAT
TRUMP DID IN THE HOURS AFTER THE
ATTACK STARTED AND BEFORE WE
REALLY GOT ANY SORT
OF RESPONSE FROM THE PRESIDENT,
DONALD TRUMP. SO, DID WE
ACTUALLY LEARN MORE ABOUT THE
TIMELINE OR DID WE ALSO LEARN
MORE ABOUT PERHAPS QUESTIONS
THAT HIS TEAM DID NOT WANT TO
ANSWER?
&gt;&gt; WE DEFINITELY DID NOT.
NOTABLY ABOUT THE CHRONOLOGY AND
YOU LOOK BACK AT THE CHRONOLOGY
WE SEE THE MIKE PENCE BEING
USHERED AWAY ABOUT A MINUTE AND
A FEW FEET LATER WE HAVE SOME OF
THE
INSURRECTIONIST BREACHING
THE CHAMBER. DONALD TRUMP SENDS
OUT A TWEET SAYING MIKE PENCE
LACKED COURAGE OR EGGING THEM ON
SO ONE OF THE QUESTIONS WE HAD
WAS ESSENTIALLY, AND IT WAS --
IT WAS ALSO COLLABORATED BY A
SENATOR THAT WAS ON THE PHONE
WITH THE PRESIDENT SAYS HE TOLD
THAT THEY HAD BEEN USHERED OUT
OF THE CHAMBER BUT AT ONE POINT
WE HAD THIS VERY IRRITATED
RESPONSE THAT SAID WE
DON'T KNOW, AND THE AVAILABLE
CHRONOLOGY WE HAVE IS OF COURSE
HE DID. OF COURSE
HE DID. HE WAS TALKING TO A
SITTING SENATOR ON THE PHONE
AFTER THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS
HUSTLED OFF THE FLOOR. THAT WAS
ONE BIT. YOU KNOW I WANT TO
AMPLIFY IT A LITTLE BIT. THAT
WAS ALL EYES ON THE REPUBLICANS
DAY. NOT JUST THE SIX WHO MIGHT
BE INCLINED TO FORGET THE
PREVIOUS TEST VOTE BUT THE
OTHERS WHO ARE LOOKING FOR WAYS
TO EXPLAIN WHY THEY VOTED TO
ACQUIT. AND ON SOME OF THOSE I
THOUGHT IT WAS INTERESTING THAT
THEY KEPT COMING BACK TO THIS
IDEA THAT THIS IS A PROCESS
FUELED BY HATE FOR THE FORMER
PRESIDENT REMINDING HIM THAT IT
HAD BEEN 74 MILLION VOTES AND IT
ALL FELT KIND
OF LIKE IT WOULD BE A PITY IF
YOU LOST IT.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT. LET'S PLAY ONE OF
THESE INTERACTIONS WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT. THIS IS A
QUESTION FROM REPUBLICAN
SENATORS LISA MURKOWSKI AND THEY
ASKED ABOUT THIS CRUCIAL
TIMELINE WHEN DID DONALD TRUMP
KNOW ABOUT THE BREACH OF THE
CAPITAL AND THEY WANTED THE
LEGAL TEAM TO BE AS SPECIFIC AS
POSSIBLE. WELCOME AS YOU BEEN
HEARING, THEIR RESPONSE WAS NOT
SPECIFIC AT ALL. LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE ABLE TO PIECE TOGETHER
A TIMELINE AND IT GOES ALL THE
WAY BACK TO DECEMBER 31st,
JANUARY SECOND, THERE WAS A LOT
OF INTERACTION BETWEEN THE
AUTHORITIES AND GETTING FOLKS TO
HAVE SECURITY BEFOREHAND ON THE
DAY WE HAVE A TWEET AT 2:38,
THAT WAS CERTAINLY SOMETIME
BEFORE THEN, WITH THE RUSH TO
RING THIS IMPEACHMENT THERE HAS
BEEN
ABSOLUTELY NO FOR THAT.
&gt;&gt; THESE ARE THE ATTORNEYS IT'S
NOT LIKE THEY DON'T HAVE THE
PHONE NUMBER AND I DON'T NEED TO
LAUGH BUT THEY PUT ALL THE
RESPONSIBILITY ON THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AND ACTED
AS THOUGH ANYTHING THAT THEY
COULD ANSWER WOULD HAVE HAD TO
HAVE BEEN
EVIDENCE INTRODUCED PRIOR TO
THIS Q&amp;A. THAT IS NOT THE CASE
HERE IT DOESN'T WORK LIKE THAT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
SENATORS TO ASK QUESTIONS AND
ATTORNEYS TO
ANSWER THEMSELVES.
IT REALLY WAS AND THEY CLEARLY
FEEL CONFIDENT THAT THEY HAVE
THE VOTES TO WIN THE TRIAL AND
THAT THEY DIDN'T NEED TO PROVIDE
ANY NEW INFORMATION. THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS NOTED THAT
HE HAD BEEN INVITED TO TESTIFY
AND REFUSED TO COME. AT ONE
POINT, THEY DID ACTUALLY SAY
PENCE WAS NOT TOLD THAT -- OR
TRUMP WAS NOT TOLD ANYTIME THEY
HAVE SAID PUBLICLY AND ON THE
RECORD ONE OF THE MOST LOYAL
THAT HE TOLD THE PRESIDENT
BEFORE HE
WENT ON TO TWEET MORE CRITICISM
SO IT REALLY DOESN'T EVEN PASS
THE SMELL TEST THAT THAT IS EVEN
TRUTHFUL BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY
THEY DID NOT GIVE THESE KEY ON
THE FENCE REPUBLICANS SORT OF
THE ASSURANCES THAT THEY NEEDED.
THEY KIND OF CEDED BACKGROUND
ESSENTIALLY BY NOT OFFERING AS
THEY COULD HAVE ANY EXCULPATORY
EVIDENCE TO BACK UP THE IDEA
THAT TRUMP WAS NOT REVELING IN
THE MAYHEM AND WAS WATCHING IT
ALL PLAY OUT ON
CABLE TELEVISION AND NOT TAKING
PEOPLE'S CALLS, PLEADING FOR
HELP AND NOT INVOLVED IN THE
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE NATIONAL
GUARD ABOUT DEPLOYING TROOPS TO
SAVE THE CAPITAL. SO, JUST
SUBSTITUTE TO LEAVE IT WAS A
PRETTY DAMNING EVIDENCE BECAUSE
THEY CHOSE NOT TO USE THEIR TIME
EARLIER IN THE AFTERNOON
TO EXPLAIN WHAT THE PRESIDENT
WAS DOING DURING THESE HOURS
THEY DIDN'T INTRODUCE ANY
EVIDENCE THAT MIGHT WORK TO HIS
BENEFIT AND THEN THEY REFUSED TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS FROM THESE
REPUBLICAN SENATORS WHO WANT A
REASON TO ACQUIT TRUMP.
THEY MIGHT NOT GIVE THEM
ANYTHING TO HANG THEIR HAT ON SO
ULTIMATELY IN TERMS OF WATCHING
THOSE REPUBLICANS IT IS PRETTY
BAD AFTERNOON FOR THE DEFENSE.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, AND JAMES I THINK
WHAT YOU SAID SAID WAS SO
SIGNIFICANT BECAUSE THE QUESTION
WILL BE CANNOT
ANSWER SATISFY
BECAUSE LISA MURKOWSKI FOR
EXAMPLE HAS A LEGAL MIND A LAW
BACKGROUND SHE'S LOOKING FOR THE
SPECIFIC ANSWERS TO UNDERSTAND
AND GAIN SOME INSIGHT INTO WHAT
THE PRESIDENT WAS DOING, WHEN
DID HE KNOW, WHEN DID HE KNOW IT
AND IT DID GIVE THEM SORT OF
INABILITY TO SAY, OKAY, I'VE HAD
THE QUESTION ANSWERED AND NOW I
CAN PLAN TO
ACQUIT.
&gt;&gt; EXACTLY. AND IT IS IMPORTANT
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT'S STATE OF
MIND REALLY DOES MATTER. EVEN
IF REPUBLICANS INTEND ON PUSHING
THIS IDEA THAT THE BRANDENBURG
STANDARD THAT WE TALKED ABOUT
DURING THE LAST BREAK HAS TO
APPLY AND IN TERMS OF THE
BRANDENBURG STANDARD, TRUMPS
INDIFFERENCE TO THE RIOT AS IT
WAS TAKING PLACE ACTUALLY DOES
HELP SATISFY THE LEGAL STANDARD.
AGAIN WHAT IS IMPUTABLE IS NOT
THE SAME AS WHAT IS THE LEGAL
BUT IT DOES SHOW THAT TRUMP WAS
MORE FOCUSED ON STOPPING THE
CERTIFICATION OF THE RESULTS AND
NOT COMING TO HIS AID OR
CHECKING ON PENCE
AND INDEED PENCE ALLIES AND
AIDES DON'T FEEL THAT THE
CHARACTERIZATION FROM THE
PRESIDENT'S LAWYER WAS ACCURATE
AT ALL. THEY HAVE A GREAT
RELATIONSHIP AND
OF COURSE TRUMP WAS WORRIED.
THERE'S REALLY NO EVIDENCE TO
SUPPORT THAT AND IF THERE WAS,
TRUMPS LAWYERS HAD EVERY
OPPORTUNITY TO INTRODUCE IT.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, WHERE DOES THIS GO
FROM HERE? WHAT IS THE LITERAL
PROCESS GOING FORWARD FOR
TOMORROW BUT ALSO WHERE DO
SENATORS MIND HAVE
TO GO OVER HERE AND WHAT DO THEY
NEED TO BE THINKING ABOUT AS
THEY HEAD INTO WHAT IS
POTENTIALLY THE FINAL DAY?
&gt;&gt; WELL, PROCEDURALLY WHAT
HAPPENS NEXT IS THEY ARE GOING
TO START UP AT 10 A.M. AS WE
JUST HEARD THE
MAJORITY LEADER SAY AND THEY
WILL START WITH A VOTE TO SEE IF
THEY WANT TO BRING IN WITNESSES
OF COURSE THEY'VE ALREADY SAID
THAT THEY WILL PUT IT TO
A VOTE. IN TERMS OF WHAT THEY
HAVE TO THINK ABOUT, SENATE
REPUBLICANS TONIGHT FOR ANYBODY
WHO'S
IN THAT
MAY BECOME WHO HASN'T EXPLICITLY
SAID WHAT WAY THEY ARE GOING TO
VOTE I THINK THEY HAVE TO LOOK
AT THE EVIDENCE THAT WAS BROUGHT
TO THEM TODAY. IT WAS A VERY
SHORT DAY FOR THE DEFENSE TEAM.
THEY ONLY TOOK ABOUT TWO AND
HALF HOURS OF WHAT COULD'VE BEEN
16 HOURS OF THEIR ARGUMENT AND
SO IF THERE ARE ANY SENATORS WHO
ARE WEARING THIS DECISION ON THE
FENCE THEY HAVE TO GO AWAY
TONIGHT LOOKING AT IF THERE
QUESTIONS WERE ANSWERED. IF THEY
FEEL THAT THE DEFENSE TEAM DID A
SATISFACTORY JOB. I THINK
ONE THING
SOME OF THE SENATORS WHO ARE IN
THAT COLUMN OF WE ARE NOT SURE
WHICH WAY THEY ARE GOING TO
VOTE. WE LOOK BACK AT THIS AND
EVEN IF THEY DON'T GET TO THE
TWO THIRDS MAJORITY VOTE TO
CONVICT DONALD TRUMP IT STILL
MAY BE THE MOST BIPARTISAN
IMPEACHMENT VOTE
IN HISTORY.
&gt;&gt; MUCH OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
DEFENSE TEAM STRATEGY WAS TO
ATTACK THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS IN THEIR DEFENSE OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT I THINK
THAT IS CERTAINLY WHAT WE SAW
TODAY ON THE BROADER SCALE WE
SAW NUMEROUS MEMBERS OF TRUMP'S
DEFENSE TEAM
GOING AFTER THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, WHAT THEY
CALL MANIPULATION OF VIDEO. THEY
MADE THE POINT NUMEROUS TIMES
SAYING THAT THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS DIDN'T SHOW
TRUMP IN HIS
FULL REMARKS MAKING THE POINT
BEFORE SHOWING TRUMPS VIDEOS YOU
KNOW IN THESE 3 TO 4 MINUTE LONG
SEGMENTS FULLY WHAT HE SAID ON
NOT ONLY YOU KNOW THE DAY OF THE
INSURRECTION BUT
IN TWEETS AND OTHER SPEECHES
THAT WE HEARD FROM HIM. I WANT
YOU TO TAKE A LISTEN TO BRUCE
CASTOR, ONE OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS WHO ARGUED
THIS TODAY. TAKE A LISTEN AT
WHAT HE HAD TO SAY.
&gt;&gt; WHAT THEY DON'T TELL YOU AND
DIDN'T TELL YOU AND WHAT YOU
PROBABLY DON'T KNOW BECAUSE I
THINK I'M THE FIRST ONE TO SAY
IT, IN THIS FORUM IS THAT 2:38,
PRESIDENT TRUMP URGED PROTESTERS
AT THE
U.S. CAPITOL TO, QUOTE, STAY
PEACEFUL, PLEASE SUPPORT OUR
CAPITAL POLICE AND LAW
ENFORCEMENT, THEY
ARE TRULY ON THE SIDE OF OUR
COUNTRY. STAY PEACEFUL AND
BEFORE WE RUN THE GRAPHIC I JUST
WANT TO POINT OUT TO YOU
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S SPEECH ENDED
AT 1:11 P.M., SO, AT 2:38 P.M.
BY THE TIME WORD REACHES THE
PRESIDENT THAT THERE IS A
PROBLEM DOWN HERE, HE'S OUT
URGING PEOPLE TO SUPPORT THE
POLICE, STAY PEACEFUL, SUPPORT
OUR CAPITAL POLICE AND LAW
ENFORCEMENT, THEY ARE ON THE
SIDE OF THE COUNTRY,
STAY PEACEFUL.
&gt;&gt; IT SHOULD'VE BEEN TO SAY THAT
HE DID NOT INCITE THE VIOLENCE,
THE INSURRECTION ON THE CAPITAL
ON THAT DAY, JANUARY SIX.
HOWEVER, HERE BRUCE CASTOR IS
BRINGING UP ANOTHER TWEET FROM
PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT WE SHOULD
PUT WEIGHT ON WHAT HE SAID AS
THE INSURRECTION WAS GOING ON SO
I JUST WANTED TO DROP ON THAT
POINT
BECAUSE CASTOR ARGUING THAT
TRUMPS WORDS WHEN HE'S CALLING
FOR PEACE AS THE INSURRECTION IS
TAKING PLACE, AS COPS ARE
GETTING THEIR HEADS
BASHED IN BY THIS MOB OF TRUMP
SUPPORTERS AS BOTH MEMBERS OF
THE HOUSE AND THE SENATE ARE
BEING EVACUATED DURING THIS
INSURRECTION THAT IS TAKING
PLACE, CASTOR IS IN EFFECT
ARGUING THAT WE SHOULD BE TAKING
INTO CONSIDERATION TRUMPS TWEETS
AT THAT TIME, CALLING FOR PEACE
YET REALLY NOT DRAWING
ANY EQUIVALENTS TO THE FACT THAT
WE SHOULD BE PUTTING ANY WEIGHT
ON TRUMPS WORDS PRIOR TO THE
INSURRECTION SO LOGIC WOULD
REALLY TELL YOU THAT TRUMPS
WORDS CARRY SOME
INHERENT POWER BOTH BEFORE AND
AFTER THE INSURRECTION WE DID
SEE SOME EXAMPLES OF TRUMP
SUPPORTERS AT THAT INSURRECTION
YELLING OVER A MEGAPHONE THAT
TRUMP HAS TWEETED FOR US TO GO
HOME SO THEY CLEARLY WERE
LISTENING TO HIM AND I THINK
DRAWING ON CASTERS POINT IS THAT
TRUMPS WORDS DID HAVE WEIGHT
BOTH BEFORE AND AFTER AND SORT
OF THAT RESPONSE HAS CLEARLY
BEEN ESTABLISHED PRIOR TO THE
INSURRECTION TAKING PLACE. I
ALSO WANTED TO MENTION THAT
THERE WAS THIS MOMENT DURING THE
QUESTION-AND-ANSWER PORTION OF
THE DEBATE TODAY WHERE TRUMPS
DEFENSE TURNED TO HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER AND SAID,
QUOTE, THERE IS NOTHING
FUN HERE, THIS IS ABOUT THE MOST
MISERABLE EXPERIENCE I HAVE HAD
IN WASHINGTON DC AND IN THAT
MOMENT HE SEEMED TO HAVE
FORGOTTEN THAT LEADER RASKIN HAD
EXPERIENCED THIS CAPITAL
INSURRECTION IN PERSON. HE HAD
HIS FAMILY HERE AND HE MADE VERY
CLEAR ON DAY ONE OF OPENING
ARGUMENTS THAT HE WAS THERE THE
DAY AFTER THEY HAD BURIED
HIS SON. LATER ON WE HEARD
RASKIN RESPONDING TO TRUMPS
COUNSEL SAYING THAT COUNSEL SAID
BEFORE THAT THIS HAS BEEN MY
WORST EXPERIENCE IN WASHINGTON
AND FOR THAT I GUESS I'M SORRY
BUT MAN YOU SHOULD HAVE BEEN
THERE ON JANUARY SIX. I THINK
THAT WOMAN REALLY ILLUSTRATES
THE DIVIDE OF REALITY AND
PERSPECTIVE THAT BOTH THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AND TRUMPS
DEFENSE ATTORNEYS HAVE HAD
THROUGHOUT THE COURSE OF TODAY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH, LET'S GO
BACK TO A LYDIA KNOX. YOU KNOW,
THAT MOMENT WAS JUST SORT OF
CLASSIC TRIAL ATTORNEY, YOU
KNOW, GRANDSTANDING SORT OF
THING, BUT, IF WE TRACE IT BACK
WHAT THEY WERE ORIGINALLY
TALKING ABOUT WAS THAT THE
CONGRESSMAN WAS USING AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SORT
OF SAY LOOK YOU SAW THIS VIDEO
OF ME EARLIER, YOU KNOW,
CHALLENGING THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE RESULTS BACK WHEN DONALD
TRUMP WON BUT HE WAS TRYING TO
PUT IT IN THE CONTEXT OF WHY HE
WAS DOING IT AND HOW BUT HE
BELIEVES IN HIS OPINION IT WAS
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT HAPPENED
WITH DONALD TRUMP. SO HOW ARE
DEMOCRATS DEFENDING SOME OF THAT
TAPE THAT WAS PLAYED EARLIER
TODAY?
&gt;&gt; SURE, SOME OF THE TAPE THEY
PLAYED MINUTE AFTER MINUTE AFTER
MINUTE OF DEMOCRATS AT EVERY
SINGLE LEVEL CALLING ON OTHER
DEMOCRATS TO FIGHT AND TO
BATTLE. ONE
QUICK POINT
, HE WAS WRONG THAT HE WAS THE
FIRST PERSON TO MENTION THAT
TWEET IN THAT FORUM. IN FACT THE
MANAGERS HAD MENTIONED THAT WE
BEFORE DURING THEIR PRESENTATION
AND THEIR POINT LARGELY WAS WHAT
DOES IT MEAN TO SOMEONE THAT HAD
BREACHED THE SENATE CHAMBER AND
HAS BEEN RIFLING THROUGH
SENATORS DESKS, WHAT DOES IT
MEAN FOR THAT PERSON TO STAY
PEACEFUL? RAPIDLY NOT A WHOLE
HECK OF A LOT. I THINK THE FOCUS
ON THE JANUARY 6th SPEECH WAS
PROBABLY SOME OF THE BEST STUFF
THAT HIS LAWYERS DID. THE
ARGUMENT THAT HE WAS USING
RHETORIC THAT IS COMMON TO
POLITICS, HAMMERING THAT HOME
WITH SCORES OF DEMOCRATS TALKING
ABOUT FIGHTING
DOING BATTLE, PUNCHING, YOU
KNOW, WARNING THAT THEIR
OPPONENTS WOULD REAP THE
WHIRLWIND, THINGS LIKE THAT AND
THEN ZEROING IN ON THE
PRESIDENTS EXPECTATION TO
THE PEOPLE TO GO PEACEFULLY AND
PATRIOTICALLY AND MAKE THEIR
VOICES KNOWN, THAT GIVE US
ANOTHER GREAT MOMENT OF TRIAL
LAWYER GRANDSTANDING WHICH WAS
MANAGER RASKIN GETTING UP AND
SAYING IF YOU ROB A BANK ON YOUR
WAY OUT THE DOOR YOU CALL OUT
RESPECT PRIVATE PROPERTY, THAT
IS NOT A DEFENSE AGAINST ROBBING
THE BANK.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, SUCH AN INTERESTING
ARGUMENT AND I THINK IT IS
IMPORTANT THAT YOU POINT OUT
THAT THEY HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT THAT STAY PEACEFUL AND
THEY WERE SORT OF PREDICTING
THAT WOULD COME UP AND TRY TO
SORT OF GIVE A REBUTTAL. BEFORE
WE LET YOU GO WHAT ARE YOU
WATCHING FOR TOMORROW?
&gt;&gt; THE
SIX REPUBLICANS WHO JOINED
DEMOCRATS TO SAY THIS WHOLE
PROCESS SHOULD MOVE FORWARD. YOU
KNOW, THERE MAY OR MAY NOT BE A
COUPLE OF OTHER OUTLIERS FOR THE
SIX SENATORS THAT I'M REALLY
WATCHING MOST CLOSELY. THERE'S
NOT A LOT OF SUSPENSE ABOUT
REALLY ANYBODY ELSE IN THAT
ROOM. ONE OF THE
BIG QUESTIONS HAS TO DO WITH
SENATOR CASSIDY OF LOUISIANA WHO
VOTED WITH THE DEMOCRATS TO
PROCEED TO THIS, HE HAS
INDICATED THAT HE HAS AN OPEN
MIND BUZZ AS OUR COLLEAGUE
REPORTED EARLIER TODAY HE WAS
SEEN WALKING THROUGH THE
HALLWAYS WITH WHAT LOOKED LIKE A
DRAFT STATEMENT EXPANDING WHY
HE HAD DECIDED TO ACQUIT DONALD
TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YES WE HAVE ONE OF OUR
PHOTOGRAPHERS THAT CAUGHT THAT
IMAGE OF WHAT SENATOR CASSIDY
WAS LOOKING AT AND WORKING ON
AND IT WAS A DRAFT OF COMMENTS
THAT
WOULD ACQUIT DONALD TRUMP, NOW,
THAT IS NOT, YOU KNOW, A
PREDICTION OF WHAT HE'S GOING TO
DO, RIGHT, THERE'S SOME PUSHBACK
ON HIS OFFICE FROM THAT BUT IT
DID LAY OUT ONE ARGUMENT, ONE
POSSIBLE ARGUMENT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, AND SAYING THEY
HAD DRAFTS FOR BOTH SIDES. WE
DIDN'T SEE THAT DRAFT BUT WE DID
SHOW THERE WAS A SCENARIO WHERE
MOST OF THESE REPUBLICANS END UP
COMING HOME. IT IS GOING TO BE
REALLY HARD FOR MICHALUK AND
COLLINS AND ROMNEY AFTER THEY
REALLY DIDN'T GET ANY ANSWERS TO
THE QUESTIONS TO JUSTIFY NOT
DOING SO. REMEMBER A YEAR AGO
THAT ROMNEY BECAME THE FIRST
PERSON TO VOTE TO REMOVE/CONVICT
A PRESIDENT OF HIS OWN PARTY IN
AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IN AMERICAN
HISTORY. THIS IS THE
FOURTH IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF A
PRESIDENT/FORMER PRESIDENT IN
U.S. HISTORY AND IT SEEMS
CERTAIN THAT'S THIS WILL BE THE
MOST BIPARTISAN BUT IT CAN BE
ONE, TWO OR THREE AS OPPOSED TO
SIX. IT DOES FEEL LIKE TRIBALISM
IS TRUMPS
FRIEND HERE. IT WAS ALSO
STRIKING I WILL SAY THAT MICHAEL
VANDER WIEN REFUSED THE QUESTION
ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT TRUMP LOST
THE ELECTION. HE REFUSED TO SAY,
AS BRUCE CASTOR HAVE SAID ON THE
TUESDAY, THAT THE VOTERS HAD
REJECTED
TRUMP AND THE SANDERS QUESTIONS
THAT WAS TRUMP ENGAGED IN A BIG
LIE BY CLAIMING THAT HE HAD WON
IN A LANDSLIDE ON THE SPEECH
JANUARY SIX AND HE
DIDN'T ANSWER, THE AUDIENCE
REALLY IS TRUMP IN HIS BASE OF
CORE SUPPORTERS.
&gt;&gt; IT IS A SENSE WHAT THEY'VE
BEEN GIVEN IN TERMS OF FODDER
TO JUSTIFY ONE WAY OR THE OTHER
I DO WANT TO PLAY A CLIP OF
THAT. AND I THINK WE WILL HEAR
THE QUESTION HERE AND THEN WE
WILL GET A
SENSE OF
HOW PRESIDENT TRUMP'S TEAM
DIDN'T REALLY ANSWER IT. LET'S
WATCH.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE PROSECUTORS HAVE
STATED OVER AND OVER AGAIN THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS PERPETRATING
A BIG LIE WHEN HE REPEATEDLY
CLAIMED THAT THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN FROM HIM AND THAT HE
ACTUALLY WON THE ELECTION BY A
LANDSLIDE. ARE THE PROSECUTORS
RIGHT WHEN THEY CLAIM THAT TRUMP
WAS TELLING A
BIG LIE? OR IN YOUR JUDGMENT,
DID TRUMP ACTUALLY WIN THE
ELECTION?
&gt;&gt; IN MY JUDGMENT, IT IS
IRRELEVANT TO THE QUESTION
BEFORE
THIS BODY.
&gt;&gt; SO, RHONDA COLDEN, THE
ATTORNEYS FOR DONALD TRUMP NOT
GOING ON THE RECORD HERE TONIGHT
AND SAYING, CLEARLY, THAT TRUMP
LOST
THE ELECTION, JOE BIDEN WON THE
ELECTION, THEY JUST DIDN'T
ANSWER IT.
AT FIRST HE DEFLECTED AND SAID
IT WASN'T RELEVANT THAN THE
QUESTION ITSELF WASN'T RELEVANT
TO TONIGHT'S PROCEEDINGS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IT MAY INDICATE THAT HE
MAY NOT TAKE THAT TYPE OF
QUESTION ON EVEN THOUGH THAT IS
IN REALLY AT THE CORE BECAUSE
DONALD TRUMP TOOK HER TO THE
RHETORIC HE WAS CLAIMING IT WAS
RELEVANT IT WAS REALLY AT THE
CORE THAT KIND OF AMPED UP
THIS CROWD. SO IT SHOULD'VE BEEN
SOMETHING THAT WASN'T
ANTICIPATED BUT IT SEEMED THAT
IT GAVE SUCH A QUICK ANSWER OF
SAYING IT WAS A IN THE RELEVANT
POINT THAT SAYS HE WASN'T MAYBE
INTERESTED TO ADDRESS THAT.
&gt;&gt; MY READING OF THAT WAS WHY
WOULD HE ANSWER THAT. HE WANTED
TO
DEFLECT THAT. HE HAS TWO
CHOICES. HE CAN SAY TRUMP LOST
THE ELECTION, WHICH WILL AND FOR
YOUR EAT
HIS CLIENT, DONALD TRUMP, OR YOU
CAN LIE AND SAY TRUMP WON THE
ELECTION WHICH IS OF COURSE NOT
BASED ON REALITY. SO YOU KNOW,
WHERE DO YOU GO WITH IT? JUST
DEFLECT AND TAKE THE OFFRAMP.
&gt;&gt; TRUMPS PREVIOUSLY LAWYERS,
THE FIRST TEAM THAT WAS THE
SUPPOSED TO REPRESENT HIM QUIT
BECAUSE THEY WANTED HE WANTED
THEM
TO MAKE THE POINT THAT THE
ELECTION WAS STOLEN FROM HIM AND
THAT THAT JUSTIFIED HIS BEHAVIOR
ON JANUARY SIX. THOSE LAWYERS
REFUSED TO DO THAT SO HE PARTED
WAYS WITH THEM AND THEY ENDED UP
WITH THIS TEAM. AND THE VIDEO
GOES ON AND HE GETS EVEN TESTY
OR AND HE LITERALLY HAS
BILLBOARDS IN PHILADELPHIA WHEN
YOU GET AN ACCIDENT THIS IS NOT
A
CONSTITUTIONAL SCHOLAR. IT IS,
THAT IS A STANDARD TRIAL LAWYER
BLUSTERING TECHNIQUE TO DISTRACT
FROM THE QUESTION AS AT HAND
AND ULTIMATELY IT IS A
REFLECTION OF THEIR CONFIDENCE
THAT THEY HAVE THE VOTES. IF IT
WAS A CLOSE CALL ABOUT WHETHER
THEY WERE GOING TO BE 17
REPUBLICANS REFLECTING I THINK
YOU WOULD'VE SEEN HIM SAY OF
COURSE PRESIDENT BIDEN WON THE
ELECTION.
&gt;&gt; AND JOAQUIN CASTRO REJECTED
THE NOTION THAT HIS SPEECH WAS
PROTECTED
BY THE BUT IT WAS SUCCESSFUL AND
ASKED THEM TO THINK ABOUT WHY
THE MOB CAME TO THE CAPITAL ON
JANUARY SIX.
&gt;&gt; DONALD TRUMP
SPENT MONTHS INCITING PEOPLE TO
BELIEVE THAT THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN AND THAT WAS THE POINT,
THAT WAS THE THING THAT WOULD
GET PEOPLE SO ANGRY. THINK ABOUT
THAT. WHAT IT WOULD TAKE TO GET
A LARGE GROUP OF THOUSANDS OF
AMERICANS SO ANGRY TO STORM
THE CAPITAL. THAT WAS THE
PURPOSE BEHIND DONALD TRUMP
SAYING THAT THE ELECTION HAD
BEEN RIGGED AND THAT THE
ELECTION HAD BEEN STOLEN AND TO
BE CLEAR WHEN HE SAYS THE
ELECTION IS STOLEN, WHAT HE'S
SAYING IS THAT THE VICTORY AND
HE EVEN SAYS ONE TIME, THE
ELECTION VICTORY IS BEING STOLEN
FROM THEM.
&gt;&gt; LET'S BRING IN
NATIONAL REPORTER
, HANNAH JEWELL, ON THIS VERY
TOPIC. SHE'S BEEN REPORTING ON
THE AMERICANS WHO CAME TO THE
CAPITAL JANUARY SIX. SO HANNAH,
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT THEIR
MOTIVATION AND THEIR ATTEMPT?
&gt;&gt; FROM MY REPORTING AND MUCH OF
THE EVIDENCE WE'VE SEEN OVER THE
LAST FOUR DAYS WE KNOW THIS
GROUP OF RIDERS EXPAND CLASS
DIVIDE THE GEOGRAPHY. WE KNOW
THAT SOME WRITERS WERE PART OF
FAR RIGHT GROUPS WHO PLANNED
THIS ATTACK WEEKS AND MONTHS IN
ADVANCE AND SOME
WERE NOT
BUT THE THING THAT THEY ALL
SHARED, THE MOST IMPORTANT
MOTIVATING FACTOR OF COURSE IS
THAT THEY ALL BELIEVE THAT TRUMP
WON THE ELECTION AND HAD HIS
VICTORY STOLEN FROM HIM AND AS
RHONDA WAS SAYING WE EVEN HEARD
TRUMPS LAWYER UNWILLING TO
ANSWER THE QUESTION OF WHETHER
THE ELECTION WAS FRAUDULENT OR
NOT. HE WOULDN'T SAY EITHER WAY.
WE HEARD TODAY SENATOR PADILLA
FROM CALIFORNIA ASK WHETHER THE
BIG
LIE WAS ENOUGH TO RADICALIZE
ENOUGH AMERICANS TO GET THEM TO
STORM THE CAPITAL AND MANAGER
CASTRO'S REPLY ABOVE THAT WE
JUST HEARD SAID THAT IT WAS AND
REALLY ANYONE WHO HAS COVERED
TRUMP RALLIES AND SPOKEN TO
TRUMP SUPPORTERS OVER THE LAST
FOUR YEARS HAS REALLY SEEN THAT
RADICALIZATION LAYOUT. I
REMEMBER BEING AT A TRUMP RALLY
IN 2016 AND ONE IN PHILADELPHIA
RIGHT AS THEY WERE CALLING
THE ELECTION AND IT WAS JUST A
DIFFERENT UNIVERSE OF SPEAKING
TO THESE TRUMP SUPPORTERS AND
WHAT THEY WERE OR WEREN'T
WILLING TO BELIEVE AND ALSO HOW
THEY FELT ABOUT BEING A MEMBER
OF THE MEDIA. WE'VE
ALSO HEARD THE MANAGER SAY THAT
AS A RESULT OF THE CAPITAL RIOT,
THE EXTREMIST WHO ATTACKED THE
CAPITAL WILL BE EMBOLDEN IS WHAT
SHE SAID. AND THIS IS REALLY THE
BIG QUESTION MOVING FORWARD AND
A SCARY ONE, WHERE DOES THE
EXTREMIST OR EVEN THE CONSPIRACY
WING OF TRUMP SPACE GO FROM
HERE? TODAY DOUBLE DOWN ON FALSE
ALLEGATIONS OF FRAUD? DO THEY
KEEP SAYING ACTUALLY IT WAS NT
FOR THAT WE ALSO HEARD FROM
TRUMPS LAWYERS. THIS WAS
ACTUALLY A LEFT WING PLOT WHICH
IS OF COURSE
TOTALLY DISPROVEN. OR DO THEY
CLAIM AS SOME REPUBLICAN
POLITICIANS NOW DO THAT THE ONLY
THING THAT THEY MEANT BY
ELECTION THOUGHT ALL ALONG WAS
THE WAY THAT CERTAIN STATES SUCH
AS PENNSYLVANIA EXPANDED THEIR
MAIL VOTING AND WHICH ONE OF
THESE WAYS DOES IT GO WITH
PEOPLE THAT ARE SO DEEP INTO
THIS, NOW, AS THE POSTERS
REPORTED THE MAJORITY
OF REPUBLICANS BELIEVE THAT THE
ELECTION
WAS FRAUDULENT.
TRUMPS LAWYER, BRUCE CASTOR,
ARGUED TODAY THAT TRUMPS SPEECH
IS PROTECTED AND NOT INCITING
BECAUSE HE SAID THE VIOLENCE WAS
PREPLANNED AND NOT THE RESULT OF
SPEECH BUT OF COURSE THE REASON
THE VIOLENCE WAS PREPLANNED WAS
BECAUSE THE FORMER PRESIDENT AND
HIS ALLIES HAVE SAID THE
ELECTION WAS STOLEN FOR MONTHS
AND MONTHS AND HONESTLY THE
TRUTH IS THAT NO
HISTORICAL ATROCITY WAS INCITED
AS THE RESULT OF A SINGLE
SPEECH, THAT WAS NEVER THE CASE.
SO IF REPUBLICANS ACCEPT OR SAY
THAT THIS RIOT WASN'T THAT BAD,
VOTE TO ACQUIT, WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN FOR
FUTURE ATTACKS? DOES THAT ONCE
AGAIN TELL THE WRITERS THAT
THEIR VIOLENCE WILL NOT BE
PUNISHED? ALTHOUGH IN THE SHORT
TERM OF COURSE AROUND 200
WRITERS HAVE BEEN CHARGED WITH
EVERYTHING FROM MISDEMEANORS TO
CONSPIRACY, SO, THE COPS AND
MESSAGES TO THE PUBLIC IF NOT
TO POLITICIANS.
&gt;&gt; HANNAH JEWELL, THANK YOU SO
MUCH. I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO THANK
MY COLLEAGUES
. A LONG DAY TO BE AT THE
CAPITAL SO THANK YOU ESPECIALLY
FOR BEING THERE AND THANKS TO
YOU, ALL OF OUR VIEWERS FOR
TAKING THE TIME TO BE INFORMED
ABOUT YOUR COUNTRY AND CHOOSING
TO WATCH THIS MOMENT IN HISTORY
WITH THE NEWSROOM OF THE
WASHINGTON POST. THANKS TO OUR
INTERNATIONAL AUDIENCE AS WELL,
THANKS FOR WATCHING. AND THANKS
TO THE SCORES OF NEWSPAPERS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND INDEED
THE GLOBE WHO ARE CHOOSING TO
EMBED OUR STREAM THROUGH THE
POST NEWSROOM WELCOME AND THANK
YOU. WE WILL BE RIGHT BACK HERE
TOMORROW MORNING, NINE A.M.
EASTERN TIME AND I HOPE TO SEE
YOU THEN, I'M LIBBY CASEY. HAVE
A GOOD NIGHT.